+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-18"
description = "Pound price forecast 18 August 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 18 August 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-08-18

2021-08-18

Pound positions are strong. Forecast as of 18.08.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The [GBPUSD][1]'s reaction to the UK inflation data resembles selling on
rumors, buying the facts. Who expected such a slowdown in CPI? Perhaps
someone knew more than the rest? Let us discuss the market outlook and
make up a trading plan for [GBPUSD][1] and [EURGBP][2].

## Weekly pound fundamental forecast

Several years ago, while Mark Carney was the head of the Bank of
England, the pound was caught in the act. The GBP reacted to the outcome
of the BoE meeting before its official release. The investigation into
the information leak ended with the discovery of traders' access to the
MPC's backup channel. It seemed that the problem was completely
eliminated. However, what happened to the sterling at the beginning of
the third week of August reminds a déjà vu. At the trading session on
August 17, the [GBPUSD][1] pair dropped the lowest during the month.
While a deteriorating global risk appetite was cited as the main reason,
in my opinion, it is different.

When the views of economists and the BoE's officials on the outlook for
British inflation are fundamentally different, and the release of the
CPI data shows a slowdown in the indicator from 2.5% to 2%, it becomes
interesting who could have known about this? The pound reacted to the
surprise from consumer prices with a collapse not only against the US
dollar, but also against the euro a day before the release of important
statistics. Then buying the facts began.

The dynamics of inflation are extremely important for predicting further
actions of the Bank of England and the fate of [GBPUSD][1] and
[EURGBP][2]. According to BoE, the indicator will accelerate to 4% by
the end of 2021, rising slightly higher at the beginning of next year,
and then slow down to 2.5% at the end of the year. Bloomberg experts
expect CPI to rise to 3.3% and 3.5% by the end of the fourth and first
quarters, followed by a decline in growth rates to 1.8% by the end of
next year. The forecasts of experts polled by Reuters give figures of
3.1%, 2.9% and 2.6% at the end of December, March and June.

### Dynamics of inflation forecasts in the UK



 _Source: Bloomberg._

Therefore, the Bank of England looks much more hawkish than the
economists. If the economists are right, there will be no need to raise
the interest rate in May 2022, as the money markets expect. The
frustration because of a later start of monetary tightening presses down
the pound. Investors are exiting the [GBPUSD][1] longs, and the price is
going down.

### Dynamics of expectations of BoE rate change

 _Source: Bloomberg._

I do not believe that [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s’ concerns are justified. The UK labor
market is strong, and the BoE will start normalizing its monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)
even if the inflation is a little higher than 2% for a long time. The
number of UK workers on payrolls rose to 28.9 million, just 201,000 less
than in march 2020. The unemployment rate dropped to 4.7% for the three-
month period to the end of June, while the wage growth was up from 7.4%
to 8.6%. Is it worth maintaining the monetary stimulus at the current
pace? Based on the pay changes, the Bank of England expects the UK
inflation rate to reach 4%.

### Weekly [EURGBP][2] and [GBPUSD][1] trading plan

I believe in the strength of the UK economy and the pound. If the
[GBPUSD][1] bulls break out the resistance at 1.377, the pair is likely
to continue consolidation in the range of 1.375-1.4 mentioned
[earlier][3]. In this case, there will be a good buy entry. If the
[EURGBP][2] doesn’t reach 0.854-0.8545, it will be relevant to sell the
pair.



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURGBP&returnUrl=true
   3. lite.forex/blog/analysts-opinions/pound-remains-successful-forecast-as-of-12082021/