+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-12"
description = "Japanese Yen price forecast 12 April 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Japanese Yen price forecast 12 April 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-12

2021-04-12

Will geopolitics save yen? Forecast as of 12.04.2021Dmitri Demidenko

[USDJPY][1] bears were enthusiastic about the fall of US Treasury
yields, contributing to the pair's most significant sell-off since
November. Perhaps the US debt market is not the only reason for the
rollback. Let us discuss this question and make up a trading plan

## Weekly yen fundamental analysis

Under Donald Trump, America's main enemy was China. Under Joe Biden, it
is going to be Russia. The White House calls Nord Stream 2 a bad deal,
threatens the Kremlin with new sanctions, and is interested in
escalating Russia and Ukraine's geopolitical conflict. At the same time,
Washington is blacklisting Chinese super-computer companies and
preparing a Strategic Competition Act for congressional consideration to
counter China. Over the past few weeks, Beijing has increased the number
of aircraft in Taiwan's airspace, and Israel has attacked the Iranian
naval vessel Saviz. Therefore, geopolitical risks are mounting, which
has [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/)ly been good [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) for the US dollar.

### Dynamics of the US dollar and the Uncertainty Index

 _Source: Nordea Markets._

As a rule, this factor is realized by increasing demand for treasury
bonds, which leads to a decrease in their yield. Nevertheless, in March,
the rally in US debt market rates was the main driver of the greenback
strengthening, so other safe-haven currencies such as the yen and the
franc can benefit from the escalating geopolitical risks.

The [USDJPY][1] featured the worst drop since November in the first full
week of April. Investors get a clear explanation of whether an increase
in the [S&P 500][2] or a decline in Treasury yields is a more powerful
argument for the USDJPY bears. Even though the US stock index continues
to update highs, the dollar price against the yen, ¥109-109.5, weakened
due to falling debt rates. At the same time, the release of US data on
consumer prices in March may return [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/) interest in Treasuries'
sale, which will be a real blow to the yen. According to Bloomberg
experts' forecasts, CPI will accelerate to 2.4%. Judging by the rise in
producer prices to 4.2%, the actual data is likely to surpass estimates.

The [USDJPY][1] volatility could substantially surge in the week ending
April 16. The pair will be influenced by rising geopolitical risks and
fears of US inflation soaring to 3% or more over the next few months.
The dynamics of the Japanese currency will continue to depend on foreign
environment, while the idea to trade on the vaccination progress,
popular in 2021, will hardly affect the yen prices. In [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of the
vaccination rate, Japan is one of the outsiders among the G-7, but based
on mortality, the country's situation does not look doom.

### Vaccination rate



 _Source: Bloomberg._

### COVID-19 mortality rate

 _Source: Bloomberg._

### Weekly [USDJPY][1] trading plan

In my opinion, the yen's fate will continue to be in the hands of the US
debt market. In the long term, due to the explosive growth of the US
economy, the rally in Treasury yields is likely to resume, allowing the
[USDJPY][1] bulls to recover the uptrend. Nevertheless, in the short-
term, geopolitics and stabilization of the Treasury bond market are
fraught with a continuation of a pullback or consolidation. I recommend
buying on the breakout of the resistances at 109.8 and 110 with targets
at 112 and 114.







## Price chart of USDJPY in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDJPY&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true