+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-12"
description = "NEO Price Prediction"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "NEO Price Prediction"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-12

2021-04-12

NEO Predictions: A Worthwhile Investment?Jana Kane

NEO is a popular [blockchain](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/trade-forex-with-bitcoin/) project that currently ranks 23rd out of all
cryptocurrencies on [Coinmarketcap][1], making it one of the most
popular altcoins. In this article, we’ll take a closer look at the
short- and long-term NEO price predictions and, in particular, the
predictions for the future. But we’ll also discuss the current NEO coin
rate and the [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) data of the coin.

The article covers the following subjects:

Everyone naturally wants to know what the NEO price will be in the
future. There are many NEO price predictions on the Internet, but which
one should you take seriously? It is best to make your own judgment
about the potential of NEO. You do not have to follow all predictions
indiscriminately. Many of the predictions have been made by people who
benefit from your investment. On this page, you will find the necessary
facts that you can use to answer the question for yourself: "Is NEO a
worthwhile investment?"

## What Is NEO?

NEO, in short, is a [blockchain](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/trade-forex-with-bitcoin/) project from China founded in 2014. It
used to be called Antshares, but this changed later. [NEO][2] is also
called the Chinese Ethereum because they are strongly committed to
creating a smart economy. This means that the developers of the project
want to make it easy to use [smart contract](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/smart-contract-on-blockchain/)s on the NEO network.

For a trader to use the NEO network, a second cryptocurrency is used -
namely, GAS. This can be considered the fuel of NEO. One share of NEO is
also seen as one share in the network, and the GAS cryptocurrency is
used to make transactions on this network.

By saving your NEO in official wallets, it is possible to earn GAS with
your NEO. This is due to the proof of stake principle. You simply
deposit your NEO coins in your wallet and receive a portion of the GAS
spent on the network in proportion to the amount of NEO you own. It is
thus possible to generate some kind of passive income for yourself. You
can imagine that when the NEO price or the GAS price rises, you will
benefit from the price difference on your NEO but also that of your
obtained extra GAS.

This is one of the reasons people invest or have invested a lot in NEO
in the past. Over the years, as with any project, a lot has happened
with the NEO trend. We should add that it’s not possible to mine NEO
coins because they were all distributed during the ICO.

## NEO In 2020 And Some History

As it always goes with cryptocurrency projects, the price of NEO
experiences constant fluctuations. That is why it makes a lot of sense
to keep an eye on the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) NEO exchange rate, as tomorrow it will be
different. The current NEO rate can be found below:

 _Source: Coinmarketcap_

At the time of writing (December 11, 2020), the NEO rate is just under
$16. However, these prices have been both much higher and much lower in
the past. During the introduction of NEO during the ICO, NEO was sold
for $0.0320 USD each [in August 2017][3].

Not much later, almost all cryptocurrency projects turned to gold when the Altseason started, and a lot of money was put into the crypto world. In fact, so much money was invested that, at one point, the [ATH/NEO rate was $196.85][4] (on Jan 15, 2018). You have to imagine how much of a return you would have achieved if you participated in the ICO, but that’s beside the point.

The price of NEO is now considerably lower, but this is completely in
line with the other cryptocurrency projects. Virtually every [blockchain](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/trade-forex-with-bitcoin/)
project has seen a significant decline at the beginning of 2018. This is
the reason that the NEO price has fallen to its current value of
approximately $16 USD. However, there are still many who are still
attracted to NEO for various reasons, and the NEO price expectation can
therefore be a positive one.

## NEO Expert Price Predictions

NEO, thanks to its great potential, is a better long-term investment
than many other cryptocurrencies. Although it is also facing a number of
headwinds, this year could be very positive for NEO. Let’s get a
foretaste of the NEO future value by looking at the predictions given by
famous crypto traders and reputable publications:

This platform predicts that NEO might reach 120 to 200 USD by the end of
2020 and in five years might go up as much as $450. Their assurance in
such a prediction shows that NEO has the potential to surpass the value
of other altcoins.

This renowned cryptocurrency forecasting [website](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/website-for-forex-trading/) has predicted that by
the end of 2020, NEO might be able to reach 30.381 USD. They also have
given a long-term forecast, where they think NEO might reach $103.70 in
a 5-year time frame.

At this famous forecasting agency, they see a bearish trend coming: they
believe that the price of NEO might depreciate in 2020 and could even
fall to around $9 USD. Still, they see 2021 as a positive year for the
coin, as they predict that NEO might go the other way and reach as high
as $21 by the end of 2021.

According to a long-term Crypto Ground forecast, NEO might go up to
$195.352 in a period of 5 years, which will be an increase of around
13x, with 16 US dollars being the current average price.

### CoinFan

CoinFan [believes][5] that by 2020, NEO might reach $200 USD at the
maximum, and by 2021, it might go up to as much as $783. This is a very
optimistic and bullish prediction by CoinFan. We’ll have to wait and
see.

## Technical Analysis

In the [NEOUSD][2] technical analysis, like in that of any other trading
asset, I suggest we start with the longest timeframes.

The above chart displays the NEOUSD monthly timeframe. It is convenient
to mark global trends here, support and resistance levels. First, we
should identify the current trend.

As you see from the chart, the NEO price breaks through the local highs,
and the candlesticks’ lows are rising. There is a clear bullish trend.

Blue dots in the chart mark the peaks of trading volumes in 2019 and
2020. Opposite, there are Japanese candlesticks, which we should analyze
to identify closing levels, lows, and highs. These figures will define
the key support and resistance levels.

Let us start the analysis with the latest point in July 2019. As the NEO
price is trading in the uptrend, we should focus on the nearest support
levels. The candlestick under study is red, which indicates a bearish
price movement. We should also note the candlestick close and low. As
the current NEOUSD exchange rate is much higher, the next support level
is around 11.63.

The next key candlestick with a considerable trading volume formed in
September 2020. It is clear from the chart that its high at 25.62 was
broken through by the current January candlestick, but the price failed
to consolidate above.

The most recent January candlestick is green; its body covers the
candlestick bodies over the previous four months. Therefore, the NEO
bullish price movement is likely to continue.

### NEO price prediction for three months

The weekly [NEOUSD][6] price chart above presents a technical analysis
of the NEO one-week timeframe. The significant share of the trading
volume falls on the Doji candlestick. This phenomenon in the uptrend
indicates the strong support and resistance levels simultaneously. The
MACD bearish divergence shows the sellers’ strength. Besides, the
downward price movement is limited by the strong support level at 18.58
from the level of the September candlestick close.

Therefore, the most likely scenario is trading flat in the range of 18 –
28. The price is likely to retest the support level at 20 USD. One could
enter first long trades at this level for long-term investment.

However, if you look at the NEOUSD [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) data, you will see a
similar fractal with a rise of two tops and a deep correction between
the peaks. Therefore, such a scenario might repeat in February.

Spare at least 2/3 of the balance to average the position at about 15
USD. This level marks the trendline and strong support from market
makers. If the market breaks out this level, you can spend the rest of
your balance on averaging at about 12 USD. You should close the buy
position if the NEO price moves below 11.63 USD.

### NEO price forecast for 2021

Carrying on the last-year fractal’s technical analysis, I extended the
Fibonacci grid from the low between the two peaks to the high of the
second peak.

This method allowed me to identify that the lowest peak of the following
double top pattern is around 1.8.

Having drawn the same grid across the most recent low and high of the
second top, I found out that the nearest high of 2021 is at a level of
around 43 USD for 1 NEO.

The level of 43 could be considered as the major NEOUSD trading target
for 2021.

Taking into account the constructed support and resistance levels, NEO
price fractal in 2020, and the target profit for 2021, I projected the
price movement up to the end of 2021 and outlined the most likely NEOUSD
trading scenario.

Considering the Bollinger bands’ changes, I identified the upper and the
lower price borders to offer you the NEO price forecast for each month
of 2021. The aggregated data are in the table below.

Month| NEOUSD price  
---|---  
Low| High  
February 2021| 14.05| 25.5  
March 2021| 15| 19  
April 2021| 15.5| 21.6  
May 2021| 18.9| 22.56  
June 2021| 17.5| 21.44  
July 2021| 17.6| 21.5  
August 2021| 19.3| 28.8  
September 2021| 22.4| 34  
October 2021| 27.7| 40.3  
November 2021| 34.7| 45.4  
December 2021| 33.7| 42.26  
  
 _The NEOUSD price technical analysis is presented by[Mikhail
Hypov][7]._

## Weekly Elliott wave NEO analysis as of 12.04.2021

The NEOUSD is forming a global simple zigzag A-B-C, like other major
cryptocurrencies covered in the article. In the global zigzag, there
have completed the upward impulse wave A, and the bearish corrective
wave B as a triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. After the B correction
completed, the market has started rising in the initial part of the
impulse wave C. Let us study the most recent chart section in the H8
timeframe.

After the corrective wave [2] competed as a double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y),
the price has started rising at the beginning of the impulse wave. There
have competed the sub-waves (1) and (2). There is currently forming sub-
wave 1 as a regular impulse. In the near future, the market should
continue rising in the final sub-wave [5] of this impulse to a level of
73.00. Next, the market could turn down and start declining in
correction 2, as outlined in the chart.

### Weekly [NEOUSD][2] trading plan:

Buy 62.82, TP 73.00

 _[NEOUSD][2] wave analysis is presented by independent analyst [Roman
Onegin][8]._

## NEO Price Prediction

Obviously, no one saw it coming that NEO's massive price rose to well over $190. The same may well be the case for the subsequent decline, with a percentage of over 95% since the [all-time high][4] ($196.85 USD on January 15th, 2018). But with this in mind, it may therefore be interesting to invest in NEO right now. Because when NEO went looking for the all-time high, not only NEO benefited from this, but also the GAS price went crazy.

The GAS price was around the same time at a price of more than $90,
while the current GAS price is currently fluctuating around one and a
half USD. The current GAS rate can be found below:

 _Source: Coinmarketcap_

### GAS Dividend From Your NEO

The more NEO you own, the more GAS you will receive. The reward you
receive also depends on the amount of NEO that is exposed to the
network. "Low" NEO prices mean you can buy more of it, and more NEO =
more GAS. You can therefore consider buying NEO now and collecting GAS.

It will now cost you about $1440 to buy 90 NEO. At the time of writing,
this means that you will receive [approximately 1 GAS per month][9] for
your proof of stake reward. At current prices, the return is not that
high, but that is what makes it interesting. Warren Buffet always says;
buy when there is fear, sell when there is euphoria. The prices are
relatively low compared to the [all-time][10] high ($97.49 USD on Jan
15, 2018), and the return is therefore much higher when prices rise.

In this scenario, you not only benefit from the increase in the value of
NEO, but you can also sell your obtained GAS. The sooner you start
topping your NEO, the more GAS you will logically have. With 90 NEO as
described, you will receive about 1 GAS per month, and at the highest
point, this was an "income" of $90 per month from your investment. Are
you investing now, and are prices rising? Then this also means a good
monthly return. Now it always remains to be seen whether a new all-time
high will come, but you can be sure that you will get the most out of it
if you get there early.

### NEO Prediction 2020 – 2026

There are, of course, plenty of NEO predictions made in the past, and no
doubt many more will follow. It is, therefore, difficult to determine
what the actual NEO rate will do in the future. The most important thing
to keep in mind is that you never spend money you can't afford to lose.
As long as you do that, nothing can really go wrong. If we are to
believe some, you could get a nice return on your NEO and GAS in the
future.

For example, a NEO prediction has been made on [Coinswitch][11] for the
coming years. This shows that the future looks bright for the Chinese
project. The NEO value quoted for 2020 is $274.8, even higher. In 2023
there is a NEO price forecast of $437, and we will all have walked in by
2025. The price of one NEO is then, according to the forecast, $533.

As you can imagine, these are very positive expectations. There are also
some more conservative forecasts, although they are still very positive:

 **Year**

|

 **Prediction**  
  
---|---  
  
2020

|

$43,79  
  
2021

|

$54,31  
  
2022

|

$21,44  
  
2023

|

$17,47  
  
2024

|

$35,66  
  
2025

|

$72,25  
  
2026

|

$71,36  
  
The earlier you were there in this case, the more you benefited from the
price increase. The relatively low prices of NEO may seem negative at
the moment, but should the price increase again, the return will
therefore be extra-large. Now, these all seem very rosy predictions and
projected values, and perhaps none of it is true; this is impossible to
say with certainty. However, the [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) data of NEO shows that in
the previous advance, the price rose within one year from prices below
the dollar to more than $160 +!



## How Did the Price of NEO Change Over Time?

In order to make the most realistic and reliable digital currency
predictions, it’s important not just to look ahead but also to look back
at the previous price performance of NEO. Below you can see how the NEO
price changed from 2017 to 2020:

 _Source: Coinmarketcap_



## What is the current price of neo?

## Conclusion

Based on the averages of [algorithms](https://www.fintechee.com/algorithms-for-trading/) and expert opinions, the price of
one NEO coin will roughly be $320 in 1 years’ time, which is roughly 20x
higher than the current NEO price. This makes NEO a worthwhile long-term
investment. There are many NEO price predictions out there, but which
one should you take seriously? It is best to make your own projection
about the potential of NEO. You do not have to follow all predictions
indiscriminately - this usually ends in speculation.

 **Time**

|

 **1 Week**

|

 **1 Year**

|

 **3 Years**

|

 **5 Years**  
  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
%

|

+8.00%

| +810%| +930%| +1820%  
  
Price

|

$17.28

|

$145.15

|

$163.39

|

$309.27  
  
Make sure to register a free demo account on [LiteForex][12]; it will
help you see how the NEO price prediction is going to play out in the
future so you can make your own investment and trading decisions.
Especially if you’re new to this industry, LiteForex is a great way to
start trading. Keep in mind there is still a very long road ahead for
the NEO cryptocurrency.

Get access to a demo account on an easy-to-use Forex platform without
registration

[ Go to Demo Account ][13]

## Price chart of NEOUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. [Coinmarketcap](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/coinmarketcap-creator/).com/ru/currencies/neo/
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NEOUSD
   3. icobench.com/ico/neo
   4. [Coinmarketcap](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/coinmarketcap-creator/).com/currencies/neo/[historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/)-data/
   5. [bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/)talk.org/index.php?topic=5121154.0
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NEOUSD
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/?author=72
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/?author=80
   9. neotogas.com/#:~:text=How%20to%20earn%20GAS%3F,not%20on%20the%20Exchange%20anymore.
   10. [Coinmarketcap](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/coinmarketcap-creator/).com/currencies/gas/
   11. coinswitch.co/[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/)/neo-price-prediction-2019-neo-price-to-touch-200-usd-by-2019-latest-neo-price-update
   12. www.liteforex.com
   13. my.liteforex.com/trading/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=neo-price-prediction-forecast&type=currency