+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-24"
description = "Pound price forecast 24 June 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 24 June 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-24

2021-06-24

It is too early to give up on sterling. Forecast as of 24.06.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

Before the June FOMC meeting, many central banks feared to leave the
pack and followed the lead of the Fed. Much has changed now. How will
the change in the Fed's stance affect the Bank of England and
[GBPUSD][1]? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan

## Weekly pound fundamental forecast

The Fed gave a free hand to other central banks by announcing an
increase in the federal funds rate earlier than anticipated. Most of
them did not risk giving signals or normalizing monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), fearing
an undesirable strengthening of the national currency against the
background of economic recovery. Now everything has changed. You can put
your old fears aside and accept the situation with the accelerating
inflation.

The Bank of England may become one of the first followers of the Fed.
The British regulator is faced with a fast-growing economy and inflation
acceleration to 2.1%, which is above the target. The fact that the
central bank has regularly underestimated the rate of growth in consumer
prices in recent years (in February it predicted them at 1.6%, in May at
1.8%), supports the rally in inflation expectations, which are at their
highest levels in the UK over the past 13 years.

### Dynamics of inflation and BoE forecasts



 _Source: Financial Times._

Thanks to successful vaccinations, the UK economy looks just as good as
America's. The Bank of England expects it to expand by 7.25% in 2021,
which is in line with the Fed's forecast for US GDP of 7%. At the same
time, the proximity of British PMI to record highs indicates that even
despite the postponement of the date of the full opening of the economy
from June 21 to July 19, it continues to perform well.

Most likely, further lifting of restrictions will contribute to the
continuation of inflation and GDP rallies, which allows the BoE to take
a more hawkish stance than before. Moreover, the "sausage war" between
London and Brussels will soon end. The parties are ready to agree to a
truce and extend the grace period, during which the UK will supply
chilled meat to Northern Ireland without excessively thorough EU checks,
according to the government of Boris Johnson, for another three months.

Money markets are currently expecting a 15 bps hike in the interest rate
by June 2022. If the Bank of England takes a hawkish stance due to
accelerating inflation, booming economy, and reduced Brexit uncertainty,
the chances of an interest rate hike could increase, which will lead to
the pound strengthening.

### Dynamics of the interest rate expectations



 _Source: Bloomberg._

At the same time, you need to understand that decisions are made by
specific people. At a time when the main ''hawk'', Andy Haldane, leaves
the Bank of England, and there are plenty of "doves" in the MPC, perhaps
we should not expect any discussion about an earlier tightening of
monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/).

### Weekly [GBPUSD][1] trading plan

In my opinion, the sterling will show its worth, given its strong
economy, fast-growing inflation, and lower political risks. Another
thing is that in the short term, the wind on Forex can be very
changeable. The BoE's "hawkish" rhetoric will allow to add up to the
[GBPUSD][1] longs formed [at the level of 1.383][2] on the breakout of
resistance at 1.4. On the contrary, the BoE's non-haste in adjusting the
monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) is fraught with profit-taking on the pound after its
rally from the 2-month bottom.



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/pound-is-under-pressure-forecast-as-of-17062021/