+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-16"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 16, 2020

April 16, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.04.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude –** **oil** ****

Oil is trading in the middle-term downtrend with a target in Target Zone
2 [17.69 – 17.13]. the key resistance of the trend is at [26.46 –
25.79]. I recommend selling oil only in the strong resistance zones,
provided that there is a pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.04.2020][1]

Oil short-term trend is also down. Traders are now trying to break out
Gold Zone [20.49 – 20.21]. If they succeed, the next downside target
will be Target Zone 2 [17.69 – 17.13].

Today, I suggest looking for sell entries in the strong resistance
zones, Additional Zone [20.93 - 20.76] and Intermediary Zone [22.77 –
22.44]. A reasonable take profit is around yesterday’s low.

One shouldn’t buy oil until the middle-term turns up. The trend will be
upward when the price breaks out level 22.77 and consolidates above at
the US session.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.04.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [20.93 - 20.76]. TakeProfit: 19.15. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules. 

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [22.77 - 22.44]. TakeProfit: 19.15. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules. 

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

Gold middle-term uptrend continues. It is clear form the chart that the
growth yet stopped under the resistance Target Zone 5 [1757.2 – 1751.2].
The trend key support is now in the zone of [1663.9 – 1655.6]. I suggest
expecting a correction in the middle-term timeframe and enter new
purchases.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.04.2020][4]

Let us analyze the short-term timeframe. Yesterday, gold price was close
to the key support to the short-term uptrend at [1705.7 – 1701.5],
though the zone wasn’t tested.

Today, I expect the correction to continue and the test of Intermediary
Zone. After that, we shall see if there will be a buy signal in the
support zone or it will be broken out downside.

If there is a buy signal, I will recommend buying gold with the target
at the local high 1746.6. If the support is broken out downside, it will
be relevant to sell gold with a target at Target Zone [1663.9 — 1655.6].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.04.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1705.7 - 1701.5].
TakeProfit: 1746.5. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EURUSD downtrend continues, and there is natural reaction of the
sellers to the test of Target Zone [1.0957 – 1.0940]. Yesterday, there
emerged a pattern to sell the euro in the medium-term, so, I recommend
holding short trades down to the target at the April’s low till the end
of the week.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.04.2020][7]

It is clear from the short-term chart that the local trend has turned
down. The price is now breaking out Intermediary Zone [1.0899 - 1.0890],
which wasn’t broken out yesterday.

If the price consolidates below IZ at European session today, one might
sell the euro with the target at Target Zone [1.0808 — 1.0790] at the US
session today.

The down scenario will be canceled if the buyers drive the price back to
the support and form a graphic technical pattern. In this case one might
consider short-term purchases with the target to break through
yesterday’s high.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.04.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

Hold down middle-term sell trades entered in Target Zone [1.0957 -
1.0940]. TakeProfit: 1.0773. StopLoss: 1.0980.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.04.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_160420_1.png?w=30&s=2ba5f9a2a4e43cfd0c5bd45bdaaf1ba7
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_160420_2.png?w=30&s=99b96350afab583d05c447fa3bad099c
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_160420_1.png?w=30&s=86d05d81809795633f33f0c2dc018523
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_160420_2.png?w=30&s=930d3a346adeebcf980b449a6a7f5d4e
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_160420_1.png?w=30&s=d369d7c87c536401f9fc1e2fc10403a6
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_160420_2.png?w=30&s=5a48a4efc8caac168b1c6764070e13c4
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-16042020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-16042020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/commodities_2.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=61f95cfc103993fd4150bdee844335c4