+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-16"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 16.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 16.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 16, 2020

April 16, 2020

Dollar dug the craterDmitri Demidenko

## Coronavirus dropped the US economy beneath the Earth surface

Greed has given way to Fear, hasn’t it? Or the buyers of the US stocks
have regained consciousness and now see the reality. The S&P 500 just
can’t be rising indefinitely when the industrial production is shrinking
at the highest pace since the Second World War, and the retail sales
show the worst drop since records started in 1992. And the Fed’s Beige
Book survey says “economic activity contracted sharply and abruptly
across all regions in the United States”, and the number of jobless
claims over 4 weeks is about to exceed 20 million. Is this an improved
epidemiological situation? Are there any signs of progress? Donald
Trump, who is going to reopen the US economy before May 1, is likely to
be mistaking his dreams for reality. Isn’t it the right time to take the
profits?

In March, large segments of the US economy were shut down. It is in a
deep crater, and it won’t start growing until the social distancing
policies aren’t weakened. Unlike the US jobs report, the retail sales
and industrial production data covered the entire month. The situation
won’t be better in April! The US GDP should suffer huge losses in the
second quarter. Only the hopes for the growth recovery in the third or
fourth quarter enable the IMF to suggest a total decline of 5.9% in
2020. How can the S&P 500 be growing in such an environment???

The struggle with the coronavirus costs money. According to the
International Monetary Fund, world governments have already spent $8
trillion, which is equivalent to 9.5% of global GDP. The G20 countries
unleashed fiscal support measures of 3.5% of the size of their
economies, which is significantly more than during the previous
financial crisis.

 **The sizes of fiscal stimulus**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 16.04.2020][1]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The IMF expects the world's gross fiscal debt will grow to 96.4% of GDP
this year from 83.3% in 2019. In advanced economies, it will grow even
more: to 122.4% from 105.2%. In Italy, according to Rabobank, the public
debt will increase from 134% the 150%, and the lack of unity in hard
times may cost the euro a lot. Italy-Germany bond yield spread reached
the maximum value since the ECB’s decision to boost the QE by €750. The
increase in the yield gap between the bonds of peripheral countries of
the currency block and Germany signals higher political risks, including
the risk of the euro-area breakup, which presses the euro down.

But still, the [EUR/USD][2] major driver is the Fear that has replaced
the Greed in the US stock market. The median forecast of the Wall Street
analysts suggests the S&P 500 should be 8% down this year. It is yet
14%, however, most of the rally should take place in the second half of
the year. It makes sense to take the profits in the meanwhile.

 **Dynamics of S &P 500**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 16.04.2020][3]

 _Source: Financial Times._

The greenback has strengthened as the speculators are exiting longs in
the US stock market. The euro bulls failed to hold the price above
$1.0965, which indicates their weakness. If the US stock indexes
continue falling, the [EUR/USD][2] will be likely to slide down to 1.084
and 1.076.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar dug the crater][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/fiscal-support-16-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=8d603d1c82a5e66bb6a4d0619a83e70a
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/spx-16-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=b130b0c5e22ec514d3eb23846028f1a2
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-dug-the-crater&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-dug-the-crater&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-16-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=201e6c0f57056fef4c19116ddc6082ec