+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-27"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (27 July 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (27 July 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-07-27

2021-07-27

Short-term analysis for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 27.07.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Yesterday, euro traders broke out the Additional Zone 1.1803 - 1.1798.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Additional Zone 70.83 - 70.70 was held by buyers yesterday. As a result,
the short-term uptrend continued, and today the target was reached in
​​the resistance zone, built according to yesterday's high.

Since the Additional Zone yielded profits, look for new purchases on the
new correction. In case of a price correction to the next ****Additional
Zone 70.76 - 70.62, it will be possible to enter long trades with the
target at 72.10.

Key support is shifting to level 70.81, which is next to the new
Additional Zone. If the structure is broken out downside, it will be
possible to sell oil with a target in the Intermediary Zone 69.39 -
69.12.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone 70.76 - 70.62.
TakeProfit: 72.10. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Yesterday gold traders came as close as possible to the Intermediary
Zone 1814 - 1812. Together with the previous resistance level of 1809,
they form a single resistance zone, so it is not surprising that after
the pin bar appeared the price collapsed and tested the support 1800 -
1799. Traders looked for a buy pattern at the beforementioned support
but no patterns were provided. On the contrary, the US trading session
closed the price below the zone, which suggests a further price fall to
the zone of 1789 - 1786.

Today, look for gold sales with the goal indicated above. There are no
reasons to enter purchases at the moment.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in the zone of 1806 - 1800. TakeProfit:
Intermediary Zone 1789 - 1786. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Yesterday, euro traders broke out the Additional Zone 1.1803 - 1.1798.
The next target of the upward correction is the test of the Intermediary
Zone 1.1851 - 1.1842. Today it is possible to consider a long trade in
the zone of 1.1803 - 1.1769. The first target should be placed in the
zone of yesterday's high.

If today the price continues to fall and the Additional Zone is broken
out, the intraday trend will again reverse down. In this case, it will
be relevant to enter euro sales with the target in the Intermediary Zone
1.1729 - 1.1720.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy in the zone of 1.1803 - 1.1769. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone 1.1851
- 1.1842. StopLoss: 1.1760.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-27072021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-27072021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus