+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-27"
description = "US dollar price forecast 27 July 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 27 July 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-07-27

2021-07-27

Dollar takes matters. Forecast as of 27.07.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Fed has many reasons to remain patient, but will it abandon the plans
announced in June? The [EURUSD][1] trend depends on the Fed’s next
steps. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

A trader should be able to read between the lines. New all-time highs of
the US stock indexes, which supported the [EURUSD][1] rally to a level
above 1.18, will hardly confuse experienced traders. According to
FactSet, about 54% of stocks in the [S&P 500][2] are trading above their
50-day moving average, up from 90% in April. Only a few large
corporations are doing well, and the rest are underperforming amid the
spread of the Delta and the slowdown in the US economy. The risk
appetite will hardly grow, and nobody wants to sell off safe-have
assets.

When the Fed stunned financial markets 6 weeks ago with the announcement
of a possible federal funds rate hike in 2022, the future of the US
economy looked bright. Successful vaccinations, lifting lockdowns, and
positive economic data encouraged the central bank to sound hawkish. The
growth of inflationary expectations forced the regulator to take active
steps. At the end of July, everything turned upside down. The number of
people infected with COVID-19 has quadrupled since then, and economic
data are increasingly disappointing. Furthermore, inflation expectations
for the next 5-10 years, according to research from the University of
Michigan, fell from 3% in May to 2.9% in July, with an average indicator
value of 2.8% in 2000-2019.

### Dynamics of US inflation expectations

 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

All this suggests that Jerome Powell and his fellow central bankers can
afford to remain patient and stick to the wait-and-see [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). If the
Fed stays passive, the US dollar will be under pressure.

However, there is another option. The Fed can recognize the existing
risks associated with the Delta but not give up on the US positive
economic outlook. Simply put, the US central bank can follow the example
of market experts and professional analysts. The polls of Reuters and
Deutsche Bank showed that respondents remained confident in the bright
future of global GDP and recognized the risks of its slowdown in the
event of the spread of new strains of COVID-19. The consensus forecast
of more than 500 economists surveyed by Reuters suggests that the global
economy will grow by 6% in 2021 (the best result in half a century) and
by 4.5% in 2022. More than 60% of respondents consider the spread of new
variants of the coronavirus to be the main danger. The same problem tops
the list of market professionals. It is followed by inflation and
economic growth.

Three-quarters of Bloomberg experts believe that the Fed will not
suggest tapering QE until Jackson Hole (August 26-28) or until the next
FOMC meeting (September 21-22). Nevertheless, any Jerome Powell’s hints
at monetary tightening, coupled with his optimism about the prospects
for the US economy, despite the Delta, can lead to a strengthening of
the greenback.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Therefore, the [EURUSD][1] trend depends on the Fed. If the US central
bank remains passive, the pair can break out the resistance at 1.1825
and grow towards 1.88 and 1.195. Otherwise, if the Fed’s officials
express the willingness to act according to the June plan, the euro
should roll down to 1.1755 and continue falling towards 1.1715 and
1.165.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true