+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-15"
description = "Euro price forecast 15 April 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 15 April 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-15

2021-04-15

Euro will do the job by proxy. Forecast as of 15.04.2021Dmitri Demidenko

If everything is bad in Europe, and the US situation is much better, why
the [EURUSD][1] is rising in price? If the financial markets feature the
same response to the US strong retail sales data as they did after the
US jobs report, the euro could well grow higher. Let us discuss the
Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Fundamental euro forecast today

The idea to buy the euro amid the potential acceleration of vaccinations
and the euro area's economic recovery due to US and Chinese imports
looks good. However, the EU governments must make an effort to support
the economic rebound. According to the IMF, the EU countries should
increase government spending by another 3% of GDP to reduce the
pandemic's economic fallout. If you want something to be done well, do
it yourself.

The International Monetary Fund predicts that the euro-area economy will
recover more slowly than its major trading partners due to vaccine
rollout problems, extended lockdowns, and less significant fiscal
stimulus than in the United States. This position seems to be shared by
the leading economic institutions in Germany. Reuters source, familiar
with the matter, claims they will cut their estimates of German GDP
growth in 2021 from 4.7% to 3.7% due to more extended isolation than
previously thought. The government focuses on the experts’ forecasts. In
January, official Berlin expected economic growth of 3%.

If everything is so bad in Europe, but in the United States, on the
contrary, everything is good, why is [EURUSD][1] growing? This is the
nature of the market! Investors are used to buying the rumor. The worse
the forecasts are, the more chances of exceeding them are. Conversely,
high estimates of GDP growth may already be priced. In this regard, the
release of US retail sales data could be the same story as the most
recent US labor market report. Strong statistics pushed the [S&P 500][2]
up, pressing down Treasury yields and weakening the greenback.

According to Bloomberg experts, the U.S. retail sales probably surged by
5.8% M-o-M in March after a 3% decline in February thanks to faster
hiring, the distribution of federal stimulus checks, a steady pace of
Covid-19 vaccinations, and fewer restrictions on stores across the
country. BofA Merrill Lynch expects an 11.5% gain.



### Dynamics of US retail sales



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Will the financial markets react in the same way as they did following
the US jobs report? The answer to this question is crucial. A positive
response will allow buying the [EURUSD][1] right away. Furthermore, it
will provide further evidence that the euro area still counts on foreign
support. And there are two sources of support – the USA and China.
China’s GDP report is as important for the euro as the US retail sales
data.

China's economy is expected to expand by a whopping 18.5% in the first
quarter, the best growth in its 30-year record-keeping [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/). However,
one should not be misled. The reason is the low calculation base of last
year when the GDP sank by almost 7%. Compared to the fourth quarter, the
economic growth rate is likely to slow down from 2.6% to 1.4%.

### [EURUSD][1] trading plan today

Tasks need to be solved as they come. If the [EURUSD][1] bulls fail to
consolidate above 1.2 amid strong US retail sales data, it will signal
their weakness. In this case, the pair is likely to roll back to the
consolidation range of 1.185-1.2. Conversely, if the euro breaks out the
above-mentioned level, it should reach the targets at $1.204 and $1.208.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true