+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-08"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 08.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 08.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 8, 2020

July 8, 2020

Dollar uses old tiesDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental US dollar forecast for today

### The correlation between USD and the S&P 500 has recovered and is at
the highest level since 2016

When the market is in a game of tug-of-war, there could hardly be such
strong moves as there were in the second quarter. Good [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) from Europe
alternates with the gloomy forecast for the US economic recovery, which
weighs on the US stock indexes and supports the greenback as a safe
haven. As a result, the [EUR/USD][1] pair is consolidating in the range
of 1.11-1.14, and the Fed should be extremely careful not to scare off
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s.

The speech of Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Richard Clarida, instead of
calming financial markets, resulted in a turmoil. He says the US central
bank has not run out of monetary tools. The Fed could again take the
measures that proved to be efficient in the past and expand the balance
sheet. Such a tone suggests that the US economic state is getting worse,
and the Fed expects a W-shaped recovery of the US GDP. As a result, the
[S&P 500][2] has closed in the red zone, especially since the
epidemiological situation in the USA is still difficult. Over the fifth
day of seven, there are more than 50,000 new coronavirus cases in the
U.S., and the death rate is again up to the highest levels since early
June. People are getting more concerned about the COVID-19 pandemic, and
it is a negative factor for the US stock indexes.

### Dynamics of S&P 500 and Google searches for COVID-19

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 08.07.2020][3]

 _Source: Nordea Markets_

In May, the number of layoffs in the US (1.8 million) was down to the
pre-crisis levels. However, the situation, when even strong reports on
the US retail sales, PMI, and jobs market is seen as a reason to worry
about the growth of new coronavirus cases, presages nothing positive.
The White House still tries to be optimistic, actively promoting its
$660 billion small-business relief program that saved 51 million jobs.
What else could the US administration do when Donald Trump’s approval
rating is down? According to the Financial Times poll, the proportion of
Americans who expect that the coronavirus pandemic in the US will worsen
next month has increased from 35% to 49%. Only 39% of respondents
believe the US economy will rebound this year, compared to 42% in June.

### Forecasts for the epidemiological situation in the USA

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 08.07.2020][4]

 _Source: Financial Times._

The opinion of the population is similar to the OECD forecasts, seeing
the US unemployment rate at 11.3% and 8.5% in 2020-2021. If the economy
is locked down again, unemployment will be up to 12.9% and 11.5%. I
should note that not only the US economic outlook is gloomy, but the
EU’s as well. The European Commission has lowered its forecasts for the
euro-area GDP from -7.4% to -8.3% this year and from + 6.1% to + 5.8%
next year. Nonetheless, the COVID-19 in Europe is better than in the
USA, and the Eurozone periphery government bond yields returned to the
pre-crisis levels.

Therefore, my forecasts have been accurate. The euro has quickly
recovered its correlation with the [S&P 500][5], and the [EUR/USD][1] is
consolidating [in the range of 1.11-1.14][6]. The euro might continue
its rally, but it should be supported by the US stock indexes. The next
support level is close to 1.124, and the resistance is in the zone of
1.129-1.13.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][7]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][8] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar uses old ties][9]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/google-spx-08-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=77d24cde6e6a5d655961d6d420691cbf
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/covid-forecast-08-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=3a7a7c5a002d32fd6771f26d012cb78d
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/forex-in-july-vikings-are-on-the-warpath/
   7. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-uses-old-ties&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-uses-old-ties&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-08-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=7732a2855841c62762364e04681d0b9c