+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-08"
description = "Technical analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 08.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 08.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 8, 2020

July 8, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 08.07.2020Alex Rodiоnov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

New margin requirements for the US Crude Oil futures operate starting
from today. The new crude oil margin has been down by $1000 and is now
$6800 per contract.

We will use margin zones drawn according to new margin requirements only
when a new local high is hit; now, we are working with the former
values.

The oil medium-term trend is up. Nothing has changed since the previous
oil price analysis. The resistance hasn’t been broken out, but the price
has come very close to it.

![LiteForex: Technical analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
08.07.2020][1]

The oil short-term trend is also up. The target is to break through the
high of June 23. Hold the rest of the buy trades entered in Additional
Zone [39.06 - 38.87] at the breakeven. If you are afraid to miss the
profit, you can safely exit the trades. Do not be too greedy.

We can draw a new intraday support zone down form the yesterday’s high.
The support is now in the price range of [39.05 – 38.86]. If the zone is
tested by the price, we shall again look for a buy pattern.

It will not be relevant to sell oil until sellers break out AZ and
consolidate the price below. In this case, the target will be
Intermediary Zone [37.54 — 37.15].

![LiteForex: Technical analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
08.07.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Hold up a part of purchases entered at level 39.00. TakeProfit: 41.40. StopLoss: 39.47.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [39.05 - 38.86]. TakeProfit: 41.40. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold price broke through the local high yesterday. The upside target is
Target Zone 6 [1817.2 – 1811.2]. I suggest entering middle-term gold
long trades according to the pattern, but we need a correction. The
trend key support is in the zone of [1715.3 — 1707.1].

![LiteForex: Technical analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
08.07.2020][4]

In the short-term timeframe, the gold price is rising, getting close to
Gold Zone [1812.5 – 1808.0]. If the GZ is reached by the price, the main
bullish pattern will work out.

Gold price was testing the broken-out zone [1780.0 - 1778.0] downside.
The zone wasn’t broken out. I hope the readers of my analytics managed
to enter buy trades and, in cases the trades were closed with a stop
loss, re-enter according to the Pin-bar or Inside bar Price Action
patterns.

As the local high has been broken through, the buy trades should be
moved to the breakeven. A part of purchases can be closed at the current
prices. The rest of the positions should be held up to Gold Zone.

![LiteForex: Technical analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
08.07.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

Hold up a part of purchases entered in the zone of [1780.0 - 1778.0].
TakeProfit: Gold Zone [1812.5 - 1808.0]. StopLoss: at the breakeven.

* * *

##  **Euro to dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The EURUSD was trading in the accumulation zone of [1.1368 – 1.1224]
yesterday. There are no clear signals to buy or sell in the longer
timeframe. So, I recommend referring to the trading signals in the
short-term timeframe.

![LiteForex: Technical analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
08.07.2020][7]

In the shorter timeframe, the euro-dollar is trading in the short-term
uptrend, whose target is at Target Zone [1.1385 – 1.1367]. The price was
being corrected down in this trend and testing the zone of good buy
prices [1.1285 – 1.1245].

According to the previous EURUSD trading recommendations, there should
be opened purchases in Intermediary Zone [1.1285 - 1.1276]. A stop loss
should be at level 1.1250. The yesterday’s low might be broken through.
If so, we shall look for a buy entry according to the false breakout
price action pattern.

When the high of July 6 is broken through, move the purchases to the
breakeven.

![LiteForex: Technical analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
08.07.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

Hold up purchases entered in Intermediary Zone [1.1285 - 1.1276].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1385 - 1.1367]. StopLoss: 1.1250.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 08.07.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_080720_1.png?w=30&s=e3e070aa0b19df4495ec37d4b7606933
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_080720_2.png?w=30&s=b4127408cd8a9428a704db469e113743
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_080720_1.png?w=30&s=760737d1439e0ccf241850b6502e4e17
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_080720_2.png?w=30&s=0feba874079cd5d94a746f6e5750f34e
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_080720_1.png?w=30&s=c996552a6ed17ff3c8f079842a9d757a
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_080720_2.png?w=30&s=d48e2a0e72e513afff50e38133b76746
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-08072020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-08072020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/oil_149.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=334b1bfeb588daa3daa520074c3fa56b