+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-08"
description = "XPTUSD forecast for 08.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "XPTUSD forecast for 08.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 8, 2020

July 8, 2020

XPTUSD forecast: Platinum is to start risingDmitri Demidenko

## Platinum price forecast for today

### The XPT/USD has been consolidating for too long, it is time to start
a trend

Financial markets are constantly changing. Yesterday’s winners could at
once turn into outsiders, and the assets that were thought frustrating
can surge and pleasantly surprise [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s. A typical example is the
precious metals sector. Palladium was a fantastic investment over the
past four years, it has grown in value by 4.5 times and reached its all-
time highs in February, while the platinum price has hardly changed.
Over the next 12 months, everything can radically change. There is going
to be real action in the precious metals market, and I am interested to
witness it.

According to Commerzbank, the platinum market will be fundamentally weak
in 2020-2021. There was an overproduction of platinum for a long time,
which resulted in the growth of surplus and the drop in platinum prices.
In 2019, amid an increased investment demand, there was recorded the
deficit, however, the bank’s analysts say that the demand for the [ETF](https://www.fixpro.org/post/etf-liquidity/)
products, platinum bars, and coins won’t reach last year’s levels, they
forecast the [XPT/USD][1] will hardly cost more than $900 in 2020 and
$1000 per ounce in 2021.

In my opinion, platinum is a more promising asset than Commerzbank
suggests. The world’s biggest platinum producer is South Africa, which
produces about 73% of the world’s platinum. The platinum production in
South Africa has dropped by 62% in April due to the pandemic, and it
will hardly rebound to the pre-crisis levels earlier than the second
half of 2022. This fact, together with the growth of the investment
demand, supports the bulls.

### Dynamics of demand for platinum bars and coins

![LiteForex: XPTUSD forecast for 08.07.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

I think the major negative factor for platinum prices is the problems of
global car production. According to Umicore, global car production will
decline by about 25% in 2020. Johnson Matthey expects the platinum
demand to substantially decline. About 35% of the platinum demand is
associated with autocatalysts. However, the proportion of precious
metals used in catalytic converters has increased by 25% in 2017-2019,
which supported the [XPT/USD][1] bulls.

### Dynamics and structure of platinum supply and demand

![LiteForex: XPTUSD forecast for 08.07.2020][3]

 _Source: Johnson Matthey_

In my opinion, everything is not that bad. First, the automotive
industry, like the global economy in general, has reached the bottom in
April and should be gradually recovering. Second, there are carried out
researches on replacing more expensive metals with cheaper ones in
industrial production. Platinum costs 2.2 times less than palladium,
which should support the growth of the demand. Finally, about 52% of
platinum in the autocatalysts production is demanded by Europe and
China, whose GDPs will be recovering faster than, for example, the US
economy.

In my opinion, the platinum traders can also use the [EUR/USD][4]
driver, the growth-gap between the euro area and the USA. Considering
the share of Europe in the global platinum demand, it is not surprising
that the EUR/USD has a strong positive correlation with the platinum
prices.

### Dynamics of EUR/USD and platinum



![LiteForex: XPTUSD forecast for 08.07.2020][5]

 _Source: Trading Economics_

I expect the [XPT/USD][1] growth to $940 and $1030 in 3 and 6 months.
The main trading scenario is to buy.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of XPTUSD in real time mode

![XPTUSD forecast: Platinum is to start rising][8]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XPTUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/bars-coins-platinum-08-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=9161a8befa10cc2b40016f9f1887da38
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/supply-demand-platinum-08-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=0501510d791c7a504c92362230f7f83b
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/eurusd-platinum-08-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=b79619cbfad093f9668f67539963482e
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=xptusd-forecast-platinum-is-to-start-rising&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=xptusd-forecast-platinum-is-to-start-rising&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-xptusd-08-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=0676c271223445ed730bd75257bac4f5