+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-25"
description = "UKBrent forecast for 25.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "UKBrent forecast for 25.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 25, 2020

June 25, 2020

Brent has a Joker in the handDmitri Demidenko

## COVID-19 vaccine will ensure oil rally

As you know, the market is ruled by Fear and Greed. The greed triggered
the epic rallies of the S&P 500 and oil up form March lows. The fear,
which came back after the epidemiological situation had become worse in
the USA, sent the US stocks and the oil price down in the correction.
The stock buyers are not confident in a soon rebound of the US growth,
the [Brent][1] and the [WTI][2] bulls have doubts that the global demand
will be back to the trend in 2021-2022. Another lockdown is hardly
possible, but [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are far less optimistic.

Before trade wars and pandemic, the oil market was full of supply.
Investors were tracking the OPEC’s attempts to improve the supply/demand
balance by cutting oil production. Occasional geopolitical shocks, such
as Iran’s potential blockading of the Strait of Hormuz or attacks on
industrial sites in Saudi Arabia, resulted in short-term price hikes.
The demand was not that important in pricing. However, the oil market
structure has changed because of the US-China trade war and COVID-19
pandemic. According to OPEC, global oil demand in the second quarter
will fall by 17.3 million barrels a day, and it will be down by 9.1
million b/d year-on-year in 2020. That is why Brent fell in March to its
lowest level since 1999.

In the April-June period, the situation seemed to be improving amid
several positive factors. China’s economy was recovering, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s
believe in the V-shaped rebound if the US growth, the price war between
Russia and Saudi Arabia ended, the OPEC+ agreed to cut the oil output by
9.7 million barrels a day, and the North American oil produces reduced
the output by 3.8 million barrels a day. Nonetheless, the COVID-19
epidemic hasn’t been defeated, and the global oil demand isn’t
recovering. So, the oil market is again in contango. Long-term oil
futures are bid higher than nearby contracts, signaling the surplus will
be long-term. Besides, contrary to the expectations, the US crude
inventories didn’t reduce the economy’s reopening, they have almost
reached 540 barrels.

 **Oil market sentiment**

![LiteForex: UKBrent forecast for 25.06.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

 **Dynamics of WTI and U.S. crude oil inventories**

![LiteForex: UKBrent forecast for 25.06.2020][4]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Therefore, the global demand, especially in the US, doesn’t any longer
support the [Brent][1] and the [WTI][2] uptrends, which makes correction
more likely to start soon. However, other benefits of the oil bulls are
still operating. Unlike in the USA, the epidemiological situation in
China and Europe is improving. The OPEC+ countries have cut the oil
production by 9.7 mb/d. The US shale production will hardly return to
the pre-crisis levels soon. Therefore, the oil bulls might resume the
rally. According to Bloomberg experts, in 18 months, the US production
will be 16% lower than its record highs of 13 million barrels per day in
February.

 **Dynamics of U.S. oil production**

![LiteForex: UKBrent forecast for 25.06.2020][5]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

In my opinion, positive outweighs. COVID-19 vaccines and medicines
should be soon developed, the death rate is declining despite the growth
in the number of new coronavirus cases. So, the global oil demand should
increase after a while, and we could use the current oil market
correction to enter buy trades. I suggest opening [Brent][1] middle-term
longs with the targets at $47 and $51. LiteForex [trading services][6]
perfectly suit this goal.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][7]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][8] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of UKBrent in real time mode

![Brent has a Joker in the hand][9]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=UKBrent&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USCrude&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/kontango-oil-25-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=1c77b95071010fe21523544626b2f9dc
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/wti-inventories-25-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=31ada169bee0237165b1c985be017249
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/usa-oil-production-25-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=37dbec7bf3e286ff66f5e262049d5ef4
   6. my.liteforex.com/?go-zone=ZASdmqixF1Cnq2et7jKB-Fl4wu_-MKOB
   7. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=brent-has-a-joker-in-the-hand&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=brent-has-a-joker-in-the-hand&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-brent-25-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1698c374bf557ae6ab08356531b0c13d