+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-08"
description = "US dollar price forecast 8 January 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 8 January 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-08

2021-01-08

Dollar is clutching at straws. Forecast as of 08.01.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Although the US stock market rose, the euro rolled down. Will the
correction be deep? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a
[EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

The Fed’s hawkish stance and the surge of the Treasury yield made
[EURUSD][1] bulls nervous. Speculators have been building up US dollar
shorts for the 40th week in a row, and the bullish factors for the
greenback encourage the sellers to exit trades. Furthermore, Bloomberg
experts expect a weak growth of the US nonfarm payrolls by 50,000. A
quarter of the analysts polled suggest the indicator should enter a
negative area.

A ‘blue wave’ allowed the [S&P 500][2] to hit new all-time highs and
supported the Treasury yield growth. The rates on 10-year Treasuries
have reached 1.1% for the first time since February, have featured the
best four-day rally since the presidential election. The yield is
growing too fast. On the one hand, it makes the US assets more
appealing; on the other hand, it sets back carry traders and emerging
markets’ currencies. According to Reuters experts, the EM currencies
should rally in 2021. 47 out of 57 analysts expect the EM currencies to
perform better than the advanced economies’ currencies.

### Dynamics of US Treasury yield

 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

### Forecasts for US dollar and other currencies

 _Source_ _: Reuters_

35 out of 63 economists, which about 55%, predict the dollar downtrend
should continue for more than a year. The median forecast for the
[EURUSD][1] is 1.25 at the end of 2021.

The greenback is supported by the Treasury yield growth, which resulted
from the growing chance of an extra fiscal stimulus provided by Joe
Biden’s administration. The stimulus will increase the volume of bonds
issue and lead to the capital outflow from the secondary market to the
initial one. The US dollar grew amid the hawkish tone of the Fed’s
officials. Richmond Fed President Thomas Barkin says the Treasury yield
increase indicates that [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s expect the Fed to hike the interest
rates. Philadelphia Fed President Patrick Harker says the Fed may begin
paring bond purchases in late 2021.

I don’t think the [EURUSD][1] bears should expect the US bond market
rates to continue the rally. History hasn’t proven that an increase in
bond issue volumes leads to a rise in yields. In contrast, the US debt
to GDP ratio has hit the level that was last since during the Second
World War, and rates are at near-record lows. The US government and the
Fed remember very well that the debt must be paid, and the lower the
yield, the cheaper it will cost to service them.

###  **Weekly[EURUSD][1] trading plan **

Therefore, I do not think that [EURUSD][1] bears will develop a deep
correction unless there are new drivers. If the US jobs report for
December is weak, the euro-dollar will go down to 1.218 or 1.2145.
However, it is likely to encourage the buyers to buy at a better price,
as the target at 1.25 is still relevant.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true