+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-12"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 12.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 12.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 12, 2020

August 12, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 12.08.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil is trading in the medium-term uptrend. Traders are trying to break
out the strong resistance at Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. The price
hasn’t yet consolidated above.

Expect a correction to buy oil at good prices.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 12.08.2020][1]

The oil short-term trend is up. Oil is trading in the correction in the
short-term timeframe. Yesterday, traders were testing the strong
resistance Additional Zone [42.70 – 42.55]. The resistance test resulted
in a small wave of sell-offs. For today, I suggest entering sell trades
with the target at the trend key support Intermediary Zone [40.33 –
40.02].

When the key support is reached by the price, we shall enter purchases
according to the pattern. The buy target will be the high of August 5.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 12.08.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [42.70 - 42.55]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [40.33 - 40.02]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [40.33 - 40.02]. TakeProfit: 43.40. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

The gold price broke out the key support of the middle-term uptrend
[1993.0 - 1984.8]. The middle-term trend turned down.

Besides, the price reached Target Zone 2 [1911.0 – 1902.8] yesterday.
The gold sellers are trying to break out TZ2.

Starting from today, I recommend entering sell trades according to the
pattern in the trend key support zone [1957.9 – 1949.2]. The sell target
will be to break through the low of this week.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 12.08.2020][4]

The short-term gold trend is also down. The price reached Gold Zone 2
[1867.0 – 1865.9] in the trend. The price is now being corrected up and
traders are testing Intermediary Zone [1910.0 – 1905.7]. Unless the zone
is broken out upside, we shall sell gold at the breakthrough of today’s
low.

Otherwise, if IZ is broken out, we shall buy gold with a target at the
upper Target Zone [1957.9 – 1949.2]. It will be trading in the middle-
term correction.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 12.08.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

Open middle-term sell positions in Target Zone [1957.9 – 1949.2]
according to the pattern. TakeProfit: 1863.4, Target Zone 3 [1829.0 -
1820.8]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The EURUSD is testing the key support of the middle-term uptrend [1.1733
– 1.1715]. I suggest entering purchases in this zone with the target at
the high of last week.

It will be relevant to sell the euro if the price breaks out the support
and consolidates below at two US sessions.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 12.08.2020][7]

The EURUSD local short-term trend is down. The price reached Target Zone
[1.1733 – 1.1715]. Yesterday, traders updated the local low, but they
didn’t break out TZ. So, it is too early to expect the further price
fall into Gold Zone [1.1642 – 1.1633].

To enter new sell trades in the trend, I suggest expecting the price
correction up to the strong resistances: Additional Zone и Intermediary
Zone. Next, look for sell entries according to the patterns in these
resistances. The target will be today’s low.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 12.08.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1761 - 1.1756]. TakeProfit: 1.1713. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1811 - 1.1802]. TakeProfit: 1.1713. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 12.08.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_120820_1.png?w=30&s=dfaa4cf67ae5379f53dcafa383bb78c4
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_120820_2.png?w=30&s=2aaf4ba639a99f2994a07aa4bfcc9884
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_120820_1.png?w=30&s=9e5c2965fca6c3dc035b7e8c50d449d4
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_120820_2.png?w=30&s=91f5a8695251266ab99a75034dbd0383
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_120820_1.png?w=30&s=bb3bf296bd6f99986c5c3b3dedac1325
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_120820_2.png?w=30&s=da1d88d7e64bea2ce9f32f293c7412c1
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-11082020-2020-08-12&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-11082020-2020-08-12&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_147.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=e7918e392d1d7842037ec7ae9dc8e3dd