+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-12"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 12.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 12.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 12, 2020

August 12, 2020

Fundamental U.S. dollar forecast for todayDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental U.S. dollar forecast for today

### The major currency pair is about to start consolidation

Over the past four months, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s have been selling off the dollar,
which seemed to have lost its profitability, against the world major
currencies. The speculative net dollar shorts have reached the highest
levels, and hedge funds have opened euro long positions the first time
over the past two years. The market is confident that the [EUR/USD][1]
will be trading at 1.2 sooner or later. What if it is wrong? The dollar
may still gain its strength back.

As the greenback shorts are close to the highest levels, there can well
start a correction. Few large banks and investment companies believe
that the USD uptrend can resume soon, however, the EUR/USD correction
down may be rather deep.

### Dynamics of speculative positions and U.S. dollar

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 12.08.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

HSBC says the [EUR/USD][1] bulls set the reasons for the further euro
rally that have already worked out. Yes, the Fed lowered the interest
rates more aggressively than the ECB, which sent the Treasury yield to
the all-time lows. However, the ECB just couldn’t afford it. The ECB
tool-kit is limited, as its interest rates are already close to zero.
Yes, the Treasury yield has dropped, but will it go lower? Few believe
that the FOMC will introduce negative interest rates. Even if it does,
the US bond market rates are likely to have hit the bottom. The surge of
the 10-year Treasury yield on August 10-11 has supported the US dollar,
sending the gold price down.

The idea of the growth gap between the U.S. and the euro-area looks
appealing. However, the number of new COVID-19 cases in the USA starts
declining, while it is increasing in some European regions. Furthermore,
the US positive domestic data signal that the second coronavirus wave
shouldn’t be as harmful to the US economy as the first one. When the
forecasts for the US GDP are grim, and the euro-area growth, on the
contrary, is expected to accelerate, any mismatches to the forecasts can
encourage [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s to sell off the [EUR/USD][1].

Moreover, the greenback has been seasonally strong in the second half of
the year also because of the capital repatriation to the USA. The USD
grew on average by 3% in the quarter ahead of the seven previous
presidential elections. So, there should be even less confidence that
the euro uptrend will soon resume.

### Seasonal factor in USD average monthly changes

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 12.08.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

I believe such factors as the diversification of the global FX reserves
in the favor of the euro and inflow of portfolio investments into the
euro-area markets should support the euro uptrend in the future. In the
meanwhile, traders should be prepared for the [EUR/USD][1] middle-term
consolidation in the range of 1.158-1.188. The scenario to buy at the
support levels of 1.166 and 1.163 is still relevant. However, the euro
bulls should be patent and focus on day-trading with narrow targets for
a while.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Fundamental U.S. dollar forecast for today][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/dollar-cftc-12-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=e395ad2d277e85eff1793b774d745533
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/dollar-12-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=5bf9120cc0e987b00aa02ea4791b99e0
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=fundamental-us-dollar-forecast-for-today&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=fundamental-us-dollar-forecast-for-today&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-12-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=fc1e88a2e0cdb00951092c1acc2cc43b