+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-01"
description = "US dollar price forecast 1 March 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 1 March 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-01

2021-03-01

Dollar gives little to pay the debts. Forecast as of 01.03.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

Investors are not satisfied with too low yields at the auctions. Amid
the new fiscal stimulus of $1.9 trillion from Joe Biden, it suggests the
Treasury yields rally should continue. How will it affect the
[EURUSD][1]? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading
plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

When the US dollar is following the yields on the US government bonds,
it is strengthening against the basket of major currencies amid the sale
of $21 trillion in the Treasury market, the most significant sell-off
since November. According to Jefferies International, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s faced
the largest debt deficit at the end of February since the taper tantrum
in 2013. The need to balance portfolios at the end of the month
stabilized the market. How long will the balance continue?

At the end of 2020, Bloomberg’s experts expected the US 10-year Treasury
yield to grow from 1% to 1.5% amid the US economy's recovery, but few
could have imagined that everything would happen so quickly. When debt
rates rise, in theory, stockholders should not worry. Rapid GDP growth
tends to lead to higher corporate profits, which should support the [S&P
500][2]. It seems that the rally in Treasury yields is not only due to
the belief in a rapid recovery of the US economy, as the FOMC officials
claim. And the surge in bond market volatility suggests that it is too
early to give up on bond sales.

### Dynamics of US bond market volatility

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The main drivers for the Treasury yield rally were the low demand at
recent auctions, during which primary dealers had to buy out about 40%
of the issue volume, with average indicator values being twice lower
recently, and the concerns that the Fed will not fulfill its promises.
As the House approved President Biden's $1.9 trillion stimulus plan with
a 219-212 vote, the issue volume should further increase. If the demand
is low, the will be more new auctions. Investors are not satisfied with
low yields, they demand higher ones, which will support the Treasury
yield rally.

Investors are also concerned that if the Fed holds the ultra-low
interest rates for too long, the inflation acceleration will force it to
start monetary normalization too aggressively. The derivatives market
expects a federal funds rate hike in early 2022, more than a year
earlier than the latest FOMC forecasts.

Therefore, the US bond market will determine the [EURUSD][1] trend in
early March. The publication of the US PMI data and jobs report and the
speeches of the Fed officials will inflate the yields. If FOMC officials
continue to argue that the Treasury yields rise results from the
expected strong economic recovery, the rally will continue. In order to
hold back the sales in the bond and equity markets, Jerome Powell and
his colleagues need to express concern that too quickly rising yields
will tighten financial conditions.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

I believe if the US bond market stabilizes, the [EURUSD][1] will
continue to consolidate in the trading range of 1.2-1.22, defined in
late [February][3]. It is still relevant to buy if the price goes down
to the lower border of the trading range and sell if the price rises.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/euro-benefits-from-carry-trades-forecast-as-of-19022021/