+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-28"
description = "Events are developing much faster in 2021 than in 2013"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Events are developing much faster in 2021 than in 2013"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-05-28

2021-05-28

The dollar got sick from a road trip. Review as of 28.05.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

Events are developing much faster in 2021 than in 2013

## Did markets overlook taper hysteria?

Jerome Powell emphasized many times his unwillingness to repeat Ben
Bernanke's mistake: former Fed Chair provoked the 2013 taper tantrum
announcing that the [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) of quantitative easing would be scaled back.
However, has the hysteria probably happened already? Eight years ago,
yields on 10-year treasury bonds grew from 1.4% to 3%. In this cycle,
rates rose from 0.5% to 1.8%. Those are comparable figures on a relative
basis. Can what happened in March then be the 2021 taper hysteria?

I've been yelling at my husband all day today. I hardly started calming
down when he told me to "calm down"!

Didn't the panic in the financial markets come to an end too fast? Bond
yields were growing for a few weeks, while in 2012-2013, it took them a
few months to grow. Every recession is unique. The current one fell into
oblivion fast. Stock indexes were soaring. So, why shouldn't the taper
hysteria finish even before really beginning? Or should we get ready for
a sequel?

She asked for a puppy. I didn't want a puppy. Finally, we made a
compromise, and we have a puppy now. The Fed says it is ready to
overheat the US economy. However surprising this position may look, a
compromise with the central bank is necessary to deal with the markets.
Trying not to repeat the mistake from 8 years ago, FOMC officials are
preparing the markets for gradual QE tapering. Dallas Federal Reserve
Bank President Robert Kaplan described discussions around scaling back
monetary support the most accurately: "Maybe taking the foot gently off
the accelerator would be a wise thing to do here so that we can manage
this transition more effectively."

Every first Fed representative has already started talking about
curtailing asset purchases under the QE program. It's as if they are in
collusion! But remember: if truth springs from an argument, a lie should
then spring from agreement. The most unconvincing lie is self-delusion.
Deep down, you understand you can't trust such a shifty character. It
appears they made a decision long ago, and now they are just trying to
calm the markets down so that the 2013 [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) won't repeat itself.

In contrast to the current events, inflation never topped 2.5% eight
years ago. These days, it may speed up to 5%. That's the circumstance
that drives treasury bond yields and the USD high, not QE taper rumors.
The Fed isn't leaving the bond market. It continues buying treasuries
and will increase its balance to $9 trillion, the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York predicts. No one is going to take away a cup of punch at the
height of the feast. The show will go on:

> \- I asked you to buy just one bottle!

>

> \- There wasn't just one!

So, the USD will continue losing power as the US is losing its
exclusivity and the global economy is recovering. The main risk is that
an inflation boost will last long. What's this world coming to? I don't
care! I just don't want to get sick from this trip.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )