+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-04"
description = "US dollar price forecast 4 November 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 4 November 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=26.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-04

2020-11-04

Dollar discloses secrets. Forecast for 04.11.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The reaction of securities, currencies, and other assets signals that
Trump could be reelected. However, the election results are not known
yet; the market may be wrong. Let us discuss the forex outlook and make
up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## US dollar fundamental forecast today

Technical analysts argue that the price chart includes all the
information. If so, Donald Trump could repeat the trick of 2016 and win
the 2020 election when no one expects him to. The stock market goes up
as the election results won’t be rejected. The bond market is bullish as
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s may not expect additional fiscal stimulus and Treasuries
issue. The dollar is rising because it strengthens when Trump succeeds.
Forex also signals the likely victory of Trump.

### Reaction of the securities market to the interim voting results

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

It would seem that Joe Biden's victory is obvious. According to the AP
VoteCast poll, 40% of more than 100 thousand respondents named
coronavirus as the United States' main problem. 25% complained about a
recession. Among those who considered the pandemic the main problem,
three quarters were going to vote for Biden. Among those who spoke about
economics, 80% would elect Donald Trump as the president. The huge
number of deaths due to COVID-19 should have outweighed any argument of
the current US president. Alas! Trump leads in swing states.

### Early voting results

 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

Betting markets have radically changed the outlook. According to Betfair
and Smarkets Exchange, Trump's chances of retaining the presidency rose
from 39% to 60% and from 33% to 74%. Forex also suggests Trump be a
favorite. Those currencies that were supposed to become the main
beneficiaries in the event of Joe Biden's victory (the Mexican peso, the
Chinese yuan) are falling; the outsiders (the Russian ruble), on the
contrary, are strengthening. Analysts believe that he would reward
countries that abide by the rules (Mexico) and punish those who do not
(Russia).

Fox News and NBC predict Democrats to retain the majority in the House
of Representatives. If the Republicans retain control of the Senate and
Trump is reelected, nothing will change in the USA. This fact highlights
the reaction of different assets to the 2016 election.

### Reaction of assets to the 2016 election

 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

The outsiders in 25 days after the election were gold and the euro. The
primary beneficiaries of the unexpected victory of Trump were the dollar
and oil. The absence of a huge monetary stimulus will slow down
inflation, which should press down the [XAUUSD][2]. On the contrary, the
oil should rise in value as the oil and gas sector will never see Joe
Biden's radical reforms.

### [EURUSD][1] trading plan today

The greenback is strengthening amid the risks of the escalation of trade
wars. Investors also hope the US GDP will outperform the euro-area
growth amid the potential increase in the demand for the US assets, also
because of the tax deductions. However, the final election results are
not reported yet. The counting of votes is likely to last longer than
expected. I don’t recommend entering any trades right now. The
[EURUSD][1], as predicted, failed to consolidate above 1.1735, and the
downtrend depends on Trump.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-discloses-secrets-forecast-for-04112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-discloses-secrets-forecast-for-04112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus