+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-16"
description = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week 16-20 November 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week 16-20 November 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-16

2020-11-16

Medium-term forecast for five cryptocurrencies as of 16.11.2020Roman
Onegin

I welcome my readers!

I have prepared a medium-term cryptocurrency forecast based on Elliott
wave analysis of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS, and Ripple. I offer
trading signals for each cryptocurrency pair.

The major cryptocurrency pairs are rising in the final legs of the
uptrends. Therefore, this week [cryptocurrency price](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/cryptocurrency-price/)s should grow.

The article covers the following subjects:

##  **Elliott wave Bitcoin analysis**

 ****

The BTCUSD is forming the corrective wave 4 as a double zigzag. Wave [W]
has completed as a simple zigzag. Next, the linking up wave [X] has
started developing as a double combination, where the sub-waves (W) and
(X) have completed, and the (Y) wave is yet unfolding. Let us explore
the (Y) wave structure in the eight-hour timeframe.

Wave (Y) is forming as a simple zigzag A-B-C. The corrective wave B has
finished as a contracting triangle. Now, the market is rising in the
impulse wave C that is composed of the five sub-waves
[1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5]. Shortly, the Bitcoin price should be growing in the
final sub-wave (5) towards a level of 16700.00. In the current
situation, one could enter long trades.

### Trading plan for [BTCUSD][1] for the week:

Buy 16098.25, TP 16700.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ethereum analysis**

 ****

The ETHUSD market continues rising in the uptrend. The zigzag-shaped
wave (W) has ended, the linking down wave (X) has also finished as a
zigzag. There is now forming the (Y) wave. It is composed of the sub-
waves A-B-C, where waves of A and C are simple impulses, wave B is a
zigzag-shaped correction. Let us explore the most recent chart section
in the eight-hour timeframe.

In the upward wave (Y), the final wave C is forming as a five-wave
impulse. This impulse's first four legs have completed, and the final
wave [5] is yet developing. The price should be rising in wave [5]
towards a level of 507.00, which is at the resistance level. Next, the
market could turn down and start declining in the new downtrend.

### Trading plan **[ETHUSD][2] **for the week:

Buy 450.40, TP 507.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Litecoin analysis**

 ****

There is developing the final leg of the global triple zigzag, wave [Z].
Wave [Z] is a down double zigzag, which is composed of the sub-waves
(W)-(X)-(Y). The bearish wave (W) has completed as a simple zigzag. Wave
(X) is unfolding as a triple zigzag. Let us see the most recent chart
section in the eight-hour timeframe.

Within the bullish linking wave (X), there is forming the upward wave Z
as a simple zigzag [a]-[b]-[c]. Wave [a] is a leading diagonal, wave [b]
is a simple zigzag-shaped correction, wave [c] is yet unfolding as a
simple impulse. Under the current conditions, the market should be
rising in wave [c] to a level of 74.60. Therefore, one could enter long
positions.

### Trading plan for **[LTCUSD][3]**  for the week:

Buy 66.46, TP 74.60

* * *

##  **Elliott wave EOS analysis**

 ****

The EOSUSD market is following the global down corrective wave B, which
is unfolding as a triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. There is now
forming the final leg of this triple combination; it is wave [Z] that is
composed of three elements (A)-(B)-(C). When the bearish impulse wave
(A) completed, the market has started forming the corrective wave (B)
that is composed of the sub-waves w-x-y. Let us study this correction in
more detail.

In the corrective wave (B), there have completed W and X, which are
simple zigzags. There is now forming the upward wave Y. The market
should continue rising in wave Y towards the level of 2.96. At this
level, the entire correction (B) will reach 38.2% Fibonacci of the
bearish impulse wave (A). After the corrective pattern completes, we
could see a new downtrend.

### Trading plan for **[EOSUSD][4]**  for the week

Buy 2.52, TP 2.96

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ripple analysis**

 ****

The XRPUSD market is forming a triple zigzag. The first four legs of
this pattern look complete; they are the sub-waves [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]. At
the time of writing, there is developing the final leg of the triple
zigzag, the [Z] wave. The [Z] wave is unfolding as a simple zigzag
(A)-(B)-(C). Let us study the structure of the [Z] in the H8 timeframe.

The impulse wave (A) has completed with all its waves 1-2-3-4-5 as a
leading diagonal. Next, the market has started rising in the corrective
wave (B). Wave (B) is a standard zigzag A-B-C, where the first two legs
have finished, and the impulse wave C is still developing. The price
should continue rising in wave C towards a level of 0.285, where the
correction (B) will reach Fibonacci retracement of 61.8% of the (A)
impulse.

### Trading plan for **[XRPUSD][5]** for the week:

Buy 0.269, TP 0.285

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-16112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-16112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus