+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-16"
description = "Euro price forecast 16 November 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 16 November 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-16

2020-11-16

Euro believes in vaccine. Forecast as of 16.11.2020Dmitri Demidenko

Despite the short-term troubles, the EURUSD is rising amid the general
euphoria. Won’t the disappointment come next? Let us discuss the Forex
outlook and make up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

##  ** **Weekly** **euro fundamental forecast****

People drive the markets. The unexpected moves of asset prices often
result from people’s puzzling decisions. The entire world is inspired by
the positive results of the COVID-19 vaccines, and the [S&P 500][2] hits
fresh highs. Why has Pfizer CEO Albert Burla sold shares of $ 5.6
million in the pharmaceutical company? Does he want to sell at good
prices when everybody is buying? Or does he not believe in the vaccine?
If so, the disappointment could soon replace the market euphoria.

The hopes for a soon economic rebound are pushing up the stock indexes
and the [EURUSD][1]. The Bloomberg data suggest a sharper downturn of
the euro-area PMI than that of the US in the first weeks of November.
Furthermore, the number of new coronavirus cases in Europe is higher
than in the USA. Despite all the negative factors, the euro is growing.

###  **Dynamics of[EURUSD][1] and the change in the COVID-19 cases **



 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

Investors believe in the economic recovery. The progress in the vaccine
development and the hopes for a V-shaped recovery of the US GDP allow
Morgan Stanley to recommend [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s to continue buying stocks and
corporate bonds and selling Treasuries and the US dollar. According to
the company’s forecast, the USD index will drop by 4% by the end of
2021. JP Morgan and Goldman Sachs are also optimistic. They suggest that
the US presidential election results and the gradual improvement of the
epidemiological situation will support the growth of the stock.

The trust in the vaccines implies that the global PMI will continue
increasing despite the second pandemic wave. The correlation between the
PMI and the Treasury yields means a big growth potential of the US bond
market. The lesson learned from the current recession suggests that it’s
better to ignore the growing debt and continue selling money rather than
saving it up. Extensions of the issue volumes will encourage [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s
to withdraw the money from the secondary market and spend it in the
initial market. In addition to the hopes for the global GDP recovery,
this fact will send the yields up.

###  **Dynamics of the global PMI and Treasury yields**



 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

Italy is willing to issue bonds in US dollars at a rate of 165 basis
points higher than their euro-area peers. Why should a country pay more
when it can borrow cheaper in its own currency, not to mention cheap
loans from the European Stability Mechanism? Italy needs money. If there
is demand, why not sell the securities at a higher price?

The higher risk appetite and growing bond yields are a positive factor
for the [EURUSD][1].

###  **Dynamics of the[EURUSD][1] and bond yields **

_Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Therefore, if Pfizer’s vaccine really saves the world from the pandemic,
the global economic recovery promises good profits for the euro buyers.
However, one should be cautious when holding the [EURUSD][1] longs
entered at [level 1.18][3]. If the [S&P 500][2] goes down, the traders
will start selling the euro.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/euro-and-fun-isolation-forecast-as-of-12112020/
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-believes-in-vaccine-forecast-as-of-16112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-believes-in-vaccine-forecast-as-of-16112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus