+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-16"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (16 November 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (16 November 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=26.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-16

2020-11-16

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 16.11.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

Euro is trading in the middle-term uptrend with the primary target at
Target Zone 2 [1.2032 — 1.2012].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

It is clear from the medium-term oil price chart that oil is trading in
the middle-term uptrend with the target at Target Zone 2 [44.22 –
43.71].

The price is being corrected, getting close to the zone of good buy
prices [39.12 – 37.77]. I recommend expecting the zone test and looking
for a buy pattern.

The oil short-term trend turned down last Friday. The sellers can now
sell oil down to the lower Target Zone [38.24 – 37.77].

Starting from today, we shall look for a sell entry. Strong resistance
zones to enter shorts are the zones of [41.32 - 41.20] and [42.63 –
42.39].

I suggest we expect the price correction upward, the test of the
resistance zone, and entering sell trades according to the pattern.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [41.32 - 41.20]. TakeProfit: 40.05. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [42.63 - 42.39]. TakeProfit: 40.05. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Over the last two weeks, the gold price tested the trend key resistance
[1951.0 – 1941.7]; traders worked out the primary scenario to sell,
driving the price again to the local low around the level of 1850.0.

The price is now being corrected up. The downtrend continues. We should
rearrange the key resistance according to the new margin. The trend key
resistance is now in the zone of [1976.9 — 1965.4].

The short-term gold price chart indicates that the local trend turned
down last week. The price also reached the trend primary target Target
Zone [1850.4 – 1838.9] last week.

There is a correction going on now. The correction target should be
Intermediary Zone [1913.6 - 1907.9].

I suggest we expect the IZ test and look for a sell pattern. The sell
target will be the low of November 9.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1913.6 - 1907.9].
TakeProfit: 1850.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Euro is trading up in the medium-term trend. The trend's primary target
is Target Zone 2 [1.2032 - 1.2012]. The price was being corrected down
last week, but it didn’t reach the trend key support [1.1688 – 1.1665].

I suggest holding a part of the purchases up to the target and entering
new buy trades according to the patterns in the shorter timeframes.

The EURUSD short-term trend is down. The target is Target Zone [1.1688 –
1.1665].

The price is now being corrected, getting close to the trend border
Intermediary Zone [1.1873 – 1.1861]. Traders must test the zone today,
we shall see the following reaction.

If there is a sell pattern in IZ, we shall sell the euro down to the
target indicates above (Target Zone [1.1688 – 1.1665]).

If the trend border is broken out upside, the short-term trend will turn
up, and the buy target will be the upper Target Zone [1.2000 — 1.1977].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1873 - 1.1861].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1688 - 1.1665]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-16112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-16112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus