+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-10"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 10.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 10.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 10, 2020

April 10, 2020

Dollar was given an ultimatumDmitri Demidenko

## Unless the USD index continues falling, the Fed will act more
aggressively and the US economy’s losses will increase

The euro has naturally risen as the S&P 500 is about to perform the bets
weekly growth since 1974, the euro-area finance ministers finally
reached an agreement on the collective assistance program, and the
minutes of the March meetings of the governing council indicated
divisions among the ECB members. The [EUR/USD][1] has soared to an
important resistance at 1.0965. Once it is broken out upside, the bulls
will continue drawing the price higher.

Following the two-day meeting, the EU finance ministers agreed on the
€500-billion stimulus package to limit the impact of the coronavirus
pandemic on the European economy. Credit lines from the European
Stability Mechanism will be available within two weeks, the €100-billion
unemployment insurance scheme proposed by the European Commission will
start operating, and finally, a pan-European guarantee fund will be
created that can support the funding of €200 billion. A lack of accord
held the [EUR/USD][1] bulls back on April 8, once the agreement was
reached, the euro buyers went ahead.

The minutes of the March meetings of the ECB showed that some officials
are against lifting existing restrictions on bond purchases. Some of
them, instead of expanding the QE volume, proposed launching OMT, a
direct financial support program developed in 2012 for stressed euro-
area countries if they have a credit line with the ESM. A dispute among
the ECB members is a bullish factor for the euro.

Still, the major growth driver for the [EUR/USD][1] has become the
continuous growth of the US stock indexes amid the OPEC+ decision to cut
crude oil production by 10 million barrels per day. Furthermore, Jerome
Powell has said the Fed will use its monetary powers forcefully, pro-
actively, and aggressively until they are confident that the U.S.
economy is solidly on the road to recovery. Besides, the Fed will boost
the monetary stimulus up to $2.3 trillion. This is the volume of new and
already existing credit schemes. Remarkably, net purchases for G-7
central banks, including the Fed, were close to $1.4 trillion in March.
That’s an extraordinary total, close to five times higher than the
previous peak of $270 billion in April 2009, according to Bloomberg
Economics.

 **Dynamics of bond purchases by G7 central banks**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 10.04.2020][2]

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg._

Such huge volumes of dollar liquidity can’t but affect the greenback
value in the future. It should also be weighed on by the expansion of
the Fed’s balance sheet to $9 trillion -$12 trillion by the end of 2020,
and the growth of the US budget deficit up to $3.6 trillion this fiscal
year that will end on September 30 and to $2.4 next year, according to
Goldman Sachs forecast. The US dollar will be vulnerable in 2021,
especially since there is a flaw in the dollar smile theory. According
to JP Morgan, the US economy will suffer from the coronavirus pandemic
more than other countries, so it may not be recovering as fast as it is
expected.

 **Losses caused by coronavirus**

 ![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 10.04.2020][3]

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Investors are willing to buy stocks at good prices, they are either
willing to sell the greenback at the right time. If G7 countries support
the OPEC+ in the program of oil production cut, and the resistance at
1.0965 is broken out upside, the [EUR/USD][1] is likely to continue the
rally to the upper border of the consolidation range of 1.075-1.121.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar was given an ultimatum][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/qe-central-banks-10-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=0910b3ba9be4bcc3b09e0480fef49cd7
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/losses-gdp-10-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=097d0f41485b0996317a66838102b296
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-was-given-an-ultimatum&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-was-given-an-ultimatum&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-10-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=621ff2d7451f1de119f19282b4b45399