+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-10"
description = "Stock market recovers faster than economy"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Stock market recovers faster than economy"
type = "post"
+++

April 10, 2020

April 10, 2020

Trump has a feast during a time of plagueDmitri Demidenko

##  **US stock indexes are growing with the number of infected people**

> \- What’s the difference between tasks and troubles?

>

> \- A task is when you need to hit the bullseye and a trouble is when
you serve as a bullseye.

Minutes of the Fed’s meetings in March show that the Central bank gave
itself a task to fight a slump of economic activity and tried to solve
the task through dropping the federal funds rate. Adversaries of
aggressive softening asserted it would seriously intimidate financial
markets. The Fed must know what they are doing, and if they used a large
monetary stimulus, that means things are going wrong. Actually, it’s
exactly what happened: [S&P 500][1] fell in response to the rate drop
and Powell & Co changed from hunters to prey for some time.

![LiteForex: Stock market recovers faster than economy][2]

A joke has been circulating in the market for a long time:

> \- What will the Fed do if aliens attack?

>

> \- First, they will drop the federal funds rate!

Reduction of borrowing costs is the first line of defence in case US
stock indexes slump. Buying treasuries and mortgage-backed securities,
supporting the market of corporate bonds and financing local power
structures are usually the next steps.  The Fed did do what it could. It
drowned financial markets in money and get back its authority. If not
for large flows of cheap dollars, [S&P 500][1] wouldn’t have had the
best weekly rally since 1974. ![LiteForex: Stock market recovers faster
than economy][3]

The States took the lead in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of coronavirus cases, the number of
deaths is increasing and rumor has it that the Mexicans initiated
completion of the wall on the border at their expense. And [S&P 500][1]
is moving north amid all those troubles. It reacts more to [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/)
concerning the epidemic’s plateau or progress of the US medicine than
Trump’s loud announcements of the US explosive economic recovery. The
president is torn between a desire to save as many people as possible
and to avoid quarantine. He makes strange speeches from time to time
too. True: what the president’s lips need is a stapler.

Meanwhile, the whole world learnt what the Year of the Rat truly means.
Everyone is stuck at home, go out only for food shopping and run away
when they see a human.  And that’s not the worst! The most important
thing is that if self-isolation doesn’t help, they can introduce self-
liquidation...Interestingly, some are still interested in buying stocks
in these circumstances.  Many are afraid of not catching the last train
to the north because stock markets usually recover faster than economy.
The result is that terrible stats on jobless claims, for example, don’t
frighten [S&P 500][1]. The life of financial markets is a game. But
someone always changes the rules.

![LiteForex: Stock market recovers faster than economy][4]

I want to believe it’s the Fed whose statements make stock indexes and
the USD react in the way they are supposed to. Take Jerome Powell’s
phrase on active aggressive policies alone! The stock market soared
despite the pandemic and the deepest recession of the US economy in
almost 100 years. The feast is going on.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of SPX in real time mode

![Trump has a feast during a time of plague][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/hunter-victim-10-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=781569c74946bf1ee44ef466e9c0b4d4
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/alien-10-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=168c56efa0ef62c100156d0ce3a093f6
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/rat-10-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=cd224871ee111f6ed68c6c0a014a69fc
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=trump-has-a-feast-during-a-time-of-plague&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=trump-has-a-feast-during-a-time-of-plague&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/liteforex-blog-markets-10-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=5c4f06e54f3951bb6464737fddb8ce67