+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-17"
description = "Pound price forecast 17 June 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 17 June 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-17

2021-06-17

Pound is under pressure. Forecast as of 17.06.2021Dmitri Demidenko

There are always two currencies in any pair, so no matter how good the
UK statistics is, this does not guarantee the [GBPUSD][1] growth. The
change in the Fed's stance is forcing bulls to postpone plans to recover
the trend. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan

## Weekly pound fundamental forecast

If the [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) about the deadline shift for the full opening of the UK economy from June 21 to July 19 and the Brexit issue made [GBPUSD][1] bulls doubt the uptrend recovery, then the Fed's rejection of its previous ideas finally convinced the bulls. The pair, having failed to consolidate the price at the lower border of the consolidation range of 1.409-1.422, eventually dropped. GBPUSD has reached the first of the two price zones indicated in [the previous article][2] (1.397-1.399) and is approaching the second around level 1.392. 

In [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of macroeconomics, everything is going well for the sterling.
In May, the number of employees in British companies increased by a
record 197 thousand, in February-April the unemployment rate fell to
4.7%, the lowest level since the summer of 2020, and wages have grown at
the fastest pace since 2007. The situation in the labor market is much
better than expected. It is recovering as quickly as the economy, which
is not happening even in the US. If to mention the acceleration of
consumer prices from 1.5% to 2.1% in May, which is the highest level in
almost two years, then the expectations of an interest rate increase in
early 2023 look quite reasonable. As well as the higher demand for pound
call [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) compared to put [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/).

### Dynamics of pound risk reversal

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Alas, the shift of the full opening of the UK economy to a later period,
the conflict over Northern Ireland, and the Fed's intention to raise the
federal funds rate earlier than the markets expected, drove the prices
of [GBPUSD][1] down. However, the bulls are not discouraged. According
to Societe Generale, examples of past political tensions suggest that
the current outbreak due to violations of the Brexit agreement will soon
subside, and the sterling will rise to $1.46 by the end of 2021.

Nomura believes that the opening of the economy not on June 21, but on
July 19 will contribute to [GBPUSD][1] growth. The correction represents
an excellent opportunity to open or add up longs, as the pair is able to
soar up to 1.51 by the end of December. Interestingly, according to
Bloomberg research, a later opening of the UK economy will not prevent
it from full recovery in the fourth quarter of this year.

### Dynamics of the British economy

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Perhaps sterling will cope with local difficulties, but what about the
Fed? FOMC forecasts have shown that amid the improvement in the US
economy, the timing of the federal funds rate hike has shifted from 2024
to 2023. Investors are seriously worried that if the rate of US GDP
growth increases even more, which could be facilitated by additional
fiscal stimulus, the monetary tightening will occur in 2022.

### Weekly [GBPUSD][1] trading plan

I don't think Jerome Powell and his colleagues would like to observe the
chaos in the market. The [S&P 500][3] collapse, the rise in Treasury
yields and the strengthening of the greenback will worsen financial
conditions, which will incite the central bank's dovish stance, and the
stabilization of dollar pairs. In my opinion, the inability of the
[GBPUSD][1] bulls to consolidate the price at 1.397 is fraught with a
continuation of the pullback to 1.392 and 1.383, where it makes sense to
consider purchases.



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/post-brexit-trade-war-is-coming-forecast-as-of-10062021/
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true