+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-17"
description = "US dollar price forecast 17 June 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 17 June 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-17

2021-06-17

Dollar is going to win. Forecast as of 17.06.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The Federal Reserve shifted the timeframe for the expected interest rate
hike from 2024 to 2023. The more aggressive signal from the Fed’s
forecasts saw the dollar rise, stocks decline and yields on 10-year
Treasuries jump. Banks are revising the [EURUSD][1] forecasts. What’s
next?

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

Any meaningful move should be made at the right time. While professional
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s wondered why the Treasury yield had dropped in the first half
of June, the Fed seized the moment and signaled that it could raise the
interest rate earlier than the market expected. The Fed sounded hawkish.
The Treasuries' response to the FOMC June meeting was the fourth-worst
over the last eighty meetings since 2011, and yield rose at the highest
pace in the last three months. Nonetheless, the Fed can be proud of
choosing the right time. Financial conditions haven’t changed
significantly.

### Five worst reactions of Treasuries to FOMC meetings since 2011



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The Fed’s officials can’t ignore the consumer price rise to 5% in May.
The Fed still repeats its mantra about the temporary surge in inflation,
and it is evident from the core PCE forecasts (3% in 2021 and 2.1% in
2022). However, an earlier timeframe for the federal funds rate hike
seems to leave a way for a retreat. US economy can make progress, which
has already happened, according to Jerome Powell.

The FOMC interest rate forecast must have been the major trigger for the
Treasury yield rally and the dollar strengthening. The quarterly
projections showed 13 of 18 officials favored at least one rate increase
by the end of 2023, versus seven in March. The Fed could suggest at
least two hikes by the end of that year, which delivered a serious shock
to financial markets. It is one thing to raise the interest rate by 25
bps, which, based on the [EURUSD][2] drop last week, has been priced. It
is another thing to hike the rate by 50 bps, which allowed the greenback
to strengthen against a basket of major currencies.

### FOMC projections for federal funds rate



 _Source_ _: Financial Times_

According to Jerome Powell, the forecasts signal that the US economy
will recover sooner than FOMC officials expected, which is pleasant.

By and large, markets received the most hawkish signals now than in any
other Fed’s message in a long time. The Fed seems to be backing away
from its mantra that discussions about raising rates would be “highly
premature.” As a result, the stock indexes dropped while Treasury yields
along with the greenback rallied up. Under these circumstances, the
world’s leading banks have revised their [EURUSD][2] forecasts. Deutsche
Bank noted that the Fed does not support the euro buyers any longer.
Goldman Sachs suggests broad U.S. dollar weakness, driven by its high
valuation and a broadening global economic recovery. Therefore, the euro
medium-term outlook is bullish. However, the EURUSD could be trading
around 1.2 in the short term.

### Weekly [EURUSD][2] trading plan

I believe the Fed’s hawkish turn increases the risk of the euro
correction. If the bulls fail to consolidate the price at the support
level of 1.198, the [EURUSD][2] could continue moving down to 1.1915. It
is dangerous to buy the euro now. Therefore, it will make sense to enter
euro purchases if the price closes above $1.2045 in the next few days.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true