+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-09"
description = "Google stock price fundamental analysis"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Google stock price fundamental analysis"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 9, 2020

July 9, 2020

Google stock analysis and evaluationMikhail Hypov

## GOOG stock: fundamental analysis, business structure, growth
estimates and stock evaluation

Dear friends,

In this article, let's meet the next blue-chip of the American stock
market - Alphabet Inc, which is the parent company of the well-known
Google.

### Alphabet revenue structure

To understand how Alphabet became what it is now, one has to understand
the company's philosophy and get to know with its products and services
better. Of course, the business core of Alphabet is Google LLC and the
services it provides which are well-known all around the world. The main
task of all these products and services is to provide a business
environment that would cover all possible customer needs in the virtual
space and provide the most complete and efficient data collection for
targeted advertising through Google Ads. By the end of 2019, the
advertising business alone brought 83% of all profit ($134 billion) to
the Alphabet conglomerate, of which 100 billion were direct revenue from
the sale of advertising in the search engine, therefore, when assessing
the fundamental value of the company, it is necessary to take into
account the main performance indicators in the advertising industry and
the demand for contextual advertising.

At the same time, the profit from advertising on YouTube is growing
annually by 35%. Last year, it amounted to 15 billion US dollars. Cloud
computing is another fast-growing segment of Google. In 2019, the Google
Cloud platform brought the company almost 9 billion US dollars, which is
half more than in the previous year. Sundar Pichai, CEO of Google,
believes that this direction is one of the most promising for the
corporation and predicts a three-fold increase in profits in 2021 from
the cloud-related services. In times of pandemic and widespread
switching to remote work, these estimates look justified.

### Fundamental Google Stock Analysis

![LiteForex: Google stock price fundamental analysis][1]

Fundamental multipliers look quite good. We see that the debt to asset
ratio remains dismissively low - the amount of the company's liabilities
does not exceed 6% of the total assets (see the first chart), and
therefore, the company has a huge amount of liquidity to build up debt
even in the midst of a deep structural crisis. The second chart shows
the total revenue dynamics which is growing steadily. Given the current
trend, experts suggest a doubling of revenue by 2024.

![LiteForex: Google stock price fundamental analysis][2]

On the third chart, we see an increase in operating expenses. This rate
is also increasing, which can be explained by the growth in the number
of the company's employees. In the first quarter of 2020, the total
number approached 130 thousand people.

![LiteForex: Google stock price fundamental analysis][3]

The fourth multiplier from the fundamental analysis set is P/E. This
indicator is fully consistent with the general rate in the industry and
is located in the region of 30 at the moment, however, given the
potential and dynamics of profit growth, the fair price per [GOOG][4]
share is estimated to be slightly higher than the current level, in the
region of 1642.73.

### Alphabet's Promising Projects

[Alphabet][4]'s stability and development prospects are ensured by a
successful business model in which most services are free and used
everywhere, for example, Android mobile operating systems which are
distributed free of charge, the Google Chrome browser which is used by
70% of people accessing the Internet. Such massive popularity creates a
gigantic customer base for promoting their own products and forms
sources for Big Data databases, thanks to which there evolve competitive
advantages of end-to-end market analytics and scalable targeting,
ranging from global advertising campaigns to a specific house and even
personalized ads. Alphabet's production of its own Google Pixel
smartphones is the cherry on top. The popularity of these phones is
constantly growing. At the end of 2019, the sales volume increased by
21.4% and amounted to a total of about 17 billion US dollars.

Other [Alphabet][4] projects, despite the fact there are so many of
them, do not generate significant revenue. The profit generated by these
companies does not exceed 0.5% of the total profit of Alphabet Inc.
Nevertheless, it is necessary to highlight the subsidiary company X
Development LLC - this is a semi-secret laboratory that specializes in
amazing new technologies. By the way, the guys from there considered the
possibility of implementing such projects as a space elevator, teleport
and flying skateboard. None of these projects was developed due to
economic inexpediency or lack of necessary technologies.

Nevertheless, thanks to this company, some revolutionary projects are
now in development, such as:

  * Waymo - self-driving cars
  * Loon - providing Internet access to remote areas with the help of high-altitude balloons.
  * Wing - drone delivery service
  * Malta - electro-thermal energy storage system
  * Makani is a power generating system based on energy kites.
  * Verily is a research company in the field of healthcare and biological life in general.
  * Chronicle Security - strengthening online security

These projects are either at the last stage of testing or already in the
process of entering a commercial stage, but due to poor media support
they are greatly underestimated by the market. Two other promising
companies owned by Alphabet are DeepMind which is engaged in the design
and development of artificial intelligence, and Google Brain, a research
company involved in training [neural network](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/17/added-genetic-algorithm-for-trading/)s. Moreover, [Alphabet][4]
has two venture capital funds that invest in promising projects and
technologies. For example, in 2018, Nest Labs, a company engaged in the
development and commercialization of IoT technology, was acquired by
Alphabet.

![LiteForex: Google stock price fundamental analysis][5]

What is listed here is only a small part of the projects and companies
in which Alphabet invests and develops. I just listed some of the most
interesting and, in my opinion, promising. The businesses of this
conglomerate have gone beyond the virtual space and now literally occupy
all the free niches of promising technologies, not being afraid of the
riskiest experiments. Thanks to this approach, the real value of
Alphabet stocks is difficult to overestimate, because no one knows which
technological direction has the potential to become succesful in the
future, and given the attractiveness of working at this company for
talents from around the world, as well as the company's huge media,
administrative and financial resources, each of the technologies can
provide an excellent result.

### Conclusion and prospects for the Google stock price

Fundamentally, the [GOOG][4] stock is greatly undervalued in the long
run. The only thing the company lacks is its own Elon Mask who can
effectively promote each of the Alphabet's products. The company's
shares look even more underestimated against those of Tesla, which stock
in its price per share is not so far from [GOOG][4]. At the same time,
it is in a highly competitive market and is working on the verge of
profitability, without proper diversification and speed of technology
development, poor scalability and huge debt load.

Taking into account all the above, [GOOG][4] stock is a great instrument
for long-term trading. I want to remind you that you can add this share
to your portfolio using [LiteForex][4]. If you have not joined the team
of traders yet, then now is the time, because LiteForex is holding a
[draw][6] with cool Apple gadgets, a car and even a house in honour of
its 15th anniversary. Anyone can win!

We will consider the prospects of Google stock price in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of
technical analysis in my next analytical article.

Subscribe to not miss anything!

* * *

I wish you good luck and great profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][7]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][8] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of GOOG in real time mode

![Google stock analysis and evaluation][9]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.09/GOOG_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=a03a50901f473090c7e2b2d11996c8d2
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.09/GOOG_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=35dccf21a651776469285ede4a8ad573
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.09/GOOG_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=cc1ddf5eda6999af5391b2c4ccfa4f1a
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23GOOG
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.09/GOOG_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=8fd54a551152d84194d8b0fbd20dd487
   6. www.liteforex.com/contests/dream-draw/
   7. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-and-evaluation-of-alphabet-google-stock&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-and-evaluation-of-alphabet-google-stock&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.09/GOOG_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=336bedd2d6ea2fe41869823148d802e2