+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-09"
description = "Technical analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 9, 2020

July 9, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.07.2020Alex Rodiоnov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil is trading in the middle-term uptrend. The price is now under the
strong resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. It the resistance is
broken out, the next upside target will be Target Zone 6 [49.17 —
48.42].

![LiteForex: Technical analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
09.07.2020][1]

The oil short-term trend is up. The target is to break through the high
of June 23. Hold the rest of the purchases entered in Additional Zone
[39.06 – 38.87] at the breakeven.

We can draw a new intraday support down form today’s high. The support
is now in the price zone of [39.32 - 39.15]. If the zone is tested by
the price, we shall again look for a buy pattern.

It will be relevant to sell oil when sellers break out AZ and
consolidate the price below. In this case, the target will be
Intermediary Zone [37.54 — 37.15].

![LiteForex: Technical analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
09.07.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Hold up a part of purchases entered at level 39.00. TakeProfit: 41.40. StopLoss: at the breakeven.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [39.32 - 39.15]. TakeProfit: 41.40. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

The gold price has reached the main buy target, Target Zone 6 [1817.2 -
1811.2]. There may start a down correction. The key support is now in
the zone of [1736.1 — 1727.9].

![LiteForex: Technical analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
09.07.2020][4]

Let us analyze the short-term gold price chart. The price has reached
the main target for short-term purchases Gold Zone [1812.5 – 1808.0].

We can draw new support zones down form the new high:

  1. Additional Zone [1797.6 - 1795.6];

  2. Intermediary Zone [1777.1 - 1773.0].

Expect a correction down to these supports to enter new purchases in the
trend with the target at the yesterday’s high.

![LiteForex: Technical analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
09.07.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1797.6 - 1795.6]. TakeProfit: 1817.2. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1777.1 - 1773.0]. TakeProfit: 1817.2. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro to dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The EURUSD rose yesterday and reached the resistance [1.1368 - 1.1350].
If the resistance is broken out, the middle-term euro trend will turn
up, and the upside target will be at Target Zone 2 [1.1550 — 1.1532].

![LiteForex: Technical analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
09.07.2020][7]

It is clear from the short-term timeframe that the euro bulls have
reached the main target in the short-term uptrend. Target Zone [1.1385 –
1.1367] has been tested.

I congratulate my colleagues who followed my trading recommendations,
entered the euro buy trades in Intermediary Zone [1.1285 – 1.1276], and
have held the purchases up to the target.

As the major upside target has been reached, there could start a
correction down. In this case, we shall expect the test of the strong
support zones.

  1. Additional Zone [1.1325 - 1.1320];

  2. Intermediary Zone [1.1279 - 1.1270].

When either of the zones is tested, it will be relevant to enter new buy
trades in the trend.

![LiteForex: Technical analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
09.07.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1325 - 1.1320]. TakeProfit: 1.1370. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1279 - 1.1270]. TakeProfit: 1.1370. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.07.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_090720_1.png?w=30&s=7205f3673b44422726ab6137c8713dda
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_090720_2.png?w=30&s=66141b52f237aa5e920294423913fff2
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_090720_1.png?w=30&s=f4fda9393d1f07055b63e69b5ace69d1
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_090720_2.png?w=30&s=477132e70fc96a32c489dc0b3f019bf5
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_090720_1.png?w=30&s=980417593c94c2158a67204d36a80393
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_090720_2.png?w=30&s=29ca8a7146c1df0bd87ae4b2a99984fb
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-09072020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-09072020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_93.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=c52dc47f6a4208e1adba12518dd4a132