+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-01"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 01.09.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 01.09.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

September 1, 2020

September 1, 2020

EUR/USD forecast: Euro trusts in foreign factors, but keeps its powder
dryDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental Euro forecast for today

### The EUR/USD uptrend is based on both domestic and foreign factors

In March, when the euro was trading close to the bottom of figure 6 and
pessimists projected it to be in parity with the US dollar, nobody
thought that the [EUR/USD][1] would reach 1.2 in late August. The euro
has been rising versus the dollar for four consecutive months, and it
has reached the highest levels since May 2018. The rally of the US stock
indexes, making [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s get rid of safe havens, a dovish shift in the
Fed’s stance, and the global economic recovery, including the rebound of
China’s growth, allowed the euro bulls to control the market.

The [S&P 500][2] rally has pointed to the best August performance since
1986. It rose amid massive fiscal stimulus, the signs of the US economic
rebound, and positive [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) about COVID-19 vaccines. The US stock market
has increased by 35% over that period, its largest five-month percentage
gain since 1938. The US stock indexes also grew because of the greenback
weakness. According to Goldman Sachs, every 10% of the USD drop
increases the earnings per share of the [S&P 500][2] companies by 3%.

###  **Dynamics of S &P 500**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 01.09.2020][3]

 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

In addition to the increase in the global risk appetite, another growth
driver for the [EUR/USD][1] is the divergence in the economic expansion.
The dollar usually loses to major world currencies if the US GDP growth
is slower than its global peer. Therefore, the euro should strengthen if
China becomes the world’s economic leader. The Chinese PMIs have been
above 50 for the sixth consecutive months, which signal the GDP
expansion. Besides, the services PMI has been the highest over the past
2.5 years. China’s growth outperforms the advanced economies, which
supports the yuan. The Chinese yuan to the US dollar exchange rate has
hit its highest value for more than a year. The drop of the USD/CNY,
suggesting the growth of the foreign demand, is a positive factor of the
export-led euro-area economy, and so for the euro.

### Dynamics of yuan and euro

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 01.09.2020][4]

 _Source: Trading Economics_

I can’t say that Europe is supported only by foreign factors. The EU
governments and the ECB take active measures to support the rebound of
the euro-area economy. Fiscal and monetary stimuli, in addition to
effective management, give hope for a quick GDP resound. According to
Bloomberg’s sources familiar with the matter, Germany’s government
should revise its forecasts. It says the economic fallout from the
coronavirus will be smaller than previously expected this year. The
previous projections of the German government suggested the economy
would contract by 6.3%.

Investors believe that the [EUR/USD][1] global uptrend will continue.
However, the euro bulls could be held back in the short run. There are
several reasons. First, US economic performance is improving. Besides,
Joe Biden’s lead over Donald Trump among registered voters has
significantly narrowed. Finally, some forex analysts suggest that the
ECB can follow the Fed’s example and target the average inflation. We
shall see if the [EUR/USD][1] will break out the resistance levels of
1.2025 and 1.2065.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![EUR/USD forecast: Euro trusts in foreign factors, but keeps its powder
dry][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/spx-01-09-20.jpg?w=30&s=f5ad71be445ac318f14bf7b9d46ecd2e
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/cny-eur-01-09-20.jpg?w=30&s=9186350b34fa62d84463f1b817e514c0
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-euro-trusts-in-foreign-factors-but-keeps-its-powder-dry&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-euro-trusts-in-foreign-factors-but-keeps-its-powder-dry&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-01-09-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=d9e70efb614713ca40da761288406b9b