+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-14"
description = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week December 14-18 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week December 14-18 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-14

2020-12-14

Medium-term forecast for five cryptocurrencies as of 14.12.2020Roman
Onegin

I welcome my readers!

I have prepared a medium-term cryptocurrency forecast based on Elliott
wave analysis of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS, and Ripple. I offer
trading signals for each cryptocurrency pair.

The cryptocurrency market should be growing in the bullish impulses this
week.

The article covers the following subjects:

##  **Elliott wave Bitcoin analysis**

 ****

The BTCUSD market is forming the global bullish trend, where the
corrective wave 4 has been developing since late 2017. Correction 4 is
unfolding as a double zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]. There is now forming the final
leg of wave (Y) of [X], which is the bullish impulse wave C. The C wave
is about to end soon. Let us study the C wave in more detail in the H8
timeframe.

The impulse wave C is composed of five sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5].
The bearish correction [4] must have ended. Next, there has started
forming the final wave [5]. The first four sub-waves must have completed
within wave [5], and the market is now rising in the sub-wave (5).
Therefore, the market should be running up to the previous high made by
impulse wave 3, that is, the level of 20900.00. It is relevant to enter
buy positions in the current situation.

### Trading plan for [BTCUSD][1] for the week:

Buy 19182.00, TP 20900.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ethereum analysis**

 ****

The [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) chart displays the structure of the global linking wave [X]
unfolding as an upward double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y). All the three sub-
waves are composed of three sub-waves of a smaller degree; they are
simple zigzag patterns A-B-C. However, the final wave (Y) hasn’t yet
completed; its final leg is currently unfolding. Let us see the ETHUSD
market in more detail in a shorter timeframe.

The sub-waves A and B have completed within the upward wave (Y). Wave A
is a bullish impulse; the B correction is a zigzag. There is now forming
the impulse wave C, where four legs out of five have completed. The
Ethereum price should be rising in wave [5] towards level 665.00. One
could enter long trades with the target to take a profit at the end of
the bull trend.

### Trading plan **[ETHUSD][2] **for the week:

Buy 585.62, TP 665.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Litecoin analysis**

 ****

The LTCUSD market continues forming the long-term bullish correction
unfolding as a triple zigzag. Within this triple zigzag, there completed
the motive sub-waves [W] and [Y] and the linking wave [X]. The second
wave [X] is still unfolding. The [X] is composed of three major sub-
waves (W)-(X)-(Y). Let us see the structure of the final wave (Y),
developing as a double zigzag, in the eight-hour timeframe.

The bullish wave (Y) is developing as a simple zigzag [a]-[b]-[c]. There
is forming the upward impulse wave [a] that should end soon. The market
could go up to a level of 105.00; next, there should be a short
correction in the [b] wave. After this correction completes, the market
should start rising in the final impulse wave [c]. An approximate
trajectory of the Litecoin future price movement is outlined in the
chart.

### Trading plan for **[LTCUSD][3]**  for the week:

Buy 81.47, TP 105.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave EOS analysis**

 ****

There is forming the global corrective wave B as a triple zigzag. The
second linking wave [X] is now forming as a triple combination with a
complex structure. The sub-waves (w)-(x)-(y)-(xx) have completed, and
the (z) is still forming. Let us see its structure in more detail in a
shorter timeframe.

The (z) wave is a standard bullish zigzag A-B-C. Wave A is an upward
five-wave impulse; the bearish correction B is a double zigzag. Wave C
must also be an impulse, but it has just started unfolding. Therefore,
the EOS market should be rising in wave C towards level 3.91, marked by
wave (Y), over the next few weeks.

### Trading plan for **[EOSUSD][4]**  for the week

Buy 2.98, TP 3.91

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ripple analysis**

 ****

The second linking wave [X], which is a part of the global triple
zigzag, continues forming. Wave [X] is unfolding as a double zigzag
(W)-(X)-(Y). The first two legs of the pattern have completed, and the
(Y) is still forming. After the A impulse and the B correction finished,
the price has been rising in the impulse wave C. Let us see its
structure in more detail in the eight-hour timeframe.

The impulse wave C, currently unfolding, is composed of five sub-waves.
After a sharp price surge in the third wave, the market dropped in the
corrective wave [4]. Correction [4] seems to have completed; so, the
market should be rising in wave [5]. Therefore, the price should be
rising to the previous high made by impulse [3] over the next few weeks.
So, one could enter long trades in the current situation.

### Trading plan for **[XRPUSD][5]** for the week:

Buy 0.503, TP 0.795

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-14122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-14122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus