+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-14"
description = "Mexican peso price forecast December 14 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Mexican peso price forecast December 14 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-14

2020-12-14

Four reasons to buy Mexican peso. Forecast as of 14.12.2020Dmitri
Demidenko

The recovery of the local economy, the US GDP growth, high demand for
emerging markets’ currencies, and the increase in international trade
make it profitable to sell the [USDMXN][1].

## Quarterly peso fundamental forecast

Donald Trump’s attacks on the Fed in 2018-2019 are nothing compared to
how other governments interfere with the central banks in other
countries. Mexico’s Senate approved Wednesday a bill that will force the
central bank to buy dollar bills from banks that can’t place them
elsewhere, making it easier for the migrants to exchange the dollar, as
they often sell the US dollars at a loss. In fact, a significant chunk
of the dollars entering the country comes from drug trafficking, and the
adoption of the bill by the House of Representatives will increase the
risk of money laundering and terrorist financing, hurt the economy and
undermine the international confidence that the Bank of Mexico took
years to win. Mexico City can face Washington’s sanctions for money
laundering.

Political risks must be the only factor that could prevent the peso from
exceptional performance in Forex. Over the past six months, the
[USDMXN][1] has been down by 11.5%. The gradual recovery of the Mexican
economy, which was 12.1% up in the third quarter, the decline in the
unemployment rate from 5.5% in June to 4.7% in October, in addition to
the favorable foreign environment allow Bloomberg experts suggest the
peso could be one of the most promising Forex currencies in 2021.

###  **Forecasts for emerging markets’ assets**

 __

_Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The world's leading central banks' ultra-easy monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) increased
the negative-yielding global debt market to $18 trillion. Cheap money,
amid [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s’ confidence in a soon victory over the pandemic, support
carry traders and emerging markets’ currencies. The major problem of
developing economies is the slow introduction of coronavirus vaccines.
However, Mexico authorizes the Pfizer-BioNTech coronavirus vaccine's
emergency use, which should encourage the peso buyers.

About 83% of Mexican exports go to the USA. The experts polled by Wall
Street Journal expect the US GDP to go up from 1.9% in the first quarter
to 4% in the second and third quarter of 2021, which also encourages the
[USDMXN][1] bears. Besides, Joe Biden has become the US president and
the US-Mexico trade relations.

Besides the international trade also influences the exchange rates.
According to Nordea Markets, the growth of international trade will,
first of all, support the currencies of Latin America and the emerging
markets.

### Currency sensitivity to international trade growth



 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

### Quarterly [USDMXN][1] trading plan

A weaker dollar supports the international financial conditions'
improvement and creates a favorable environment for globalization and
trade development, which will encourage the [USDMXN][1] bears. I
believe, provided Mexico’s House of Representatives blocks the bill
forcing the central bank to buy the dollars, the pair will continue
falling towards 19.4 and 18.6. I recommend one to sell the dollar versus
the peso on the [USDMXN][1] drawdowns.





## Price chart of USDMXN in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDMXN&returnUrl=true