+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-14"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (14 December 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (14 December 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-14

2020-12-14

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 14.12.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The EURUSD has broken out the trendline in the medium-term chart and
consolidated below.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The medium-term oil uptrend continues. The trend target is Target Zone 3
[49.62 - 49.11]. Enter purchases on the correction at the trendline,
marked with pink in the chart.

The short-term oil trend is up. Last week, the price reached Gold Zone
[47.64 – 47.41]. The price didn’t break out the zone at a first try; it
was corrected down to the intraday support zone Additional Zone [46.65 –
46.53].

The buyers held the support up, and the price is now rising. The growth
target is to break through the high of last week and break out Gold
Zone. For today, I recommend holding purchases entered in AZ up with the
stop below AZ. After the price tests GZ, move the positions to the
breakeven.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Hold up buy trades entered in Additional Zone [46.65 - 46.53].
TakeProfit: 47.82. StopLoss: 46.22.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

The gold price tested the resistance zone of [1850 – 1890] last week.
The sellers reacted and drew the price back under the resistance. This
week we shall expect a sell pattern. The pattern will emerge when the
price breaks out level 1825 and consolidates below.

The short-term gold trend is up. Last week, the traders corrected the
price down to the trend key support [1825.2 – 1820.2]. The price didn’t
break out the support. Enter purchases according to the pattern with the
target at the high of December 8.

An alternative scenario suggests selling gold at the intraday
resistances Additional Zones. The closest zone is in the area of [1851.4
- 1848.9]. Refer to the local lows as the targets.

If the price breaks out Intermediary Zone and closes below at the US
session this week, the short-term trend will turn down.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1851.4 - 1848.9]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1825.2 - 1820.2]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1825.2 - 1820.2]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1890.8 - 1879.3]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD has broken out the trendline in the medium-term chart and
consolidated below. The price retesting the trendline now. There are
good prices to sell the euro. I recommend selling the euro with the
target to break through the low of last week.

Let us switch to the shorter timeframe and analyze the short-term trend.

It is clear that the traders are holding up the key support of the
short-term uptrend. However, the price can’t break out the local
resistance zone [1.2160 – 1.2151].

The situation is controversial. On the one hand, we could enter sell
trades in the resistance zone. On the other hand, we could enter buy
trades in the trend. I recommend trading the EURUSD in the short-term
timeframe in the same way as we do in the sideways trend. It is relevant
to sell at the upper border of the trading range and buy at the
channel's lower border.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Open medium-term sell positions at the current prices. TakeProfit:
1.2060. SL: 1.2170.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-14122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-14122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus