+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-31"
description = "Best Leverage for Forex Trading: What Ratio is Good for Newbies & Pros"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Best Leverage for Forex Trading: What Ratio is Good for Newbies & Pros"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 31, 2020

July 31, 2020

Best Leverage Ratio for Forex TradingMikhail Hypov

Whether you are a newbie trader on the Forex market or have solid
experience, you have certainly already encountered the concept of
leverage. If you are just discovering Forex trading, you may be
wondering what exactly this term means. In this case, I recommend you to
read the article “[What is leverage][1]”.

The article covers the following subjects:

Since leading brokers around the world offer different leverage ratios
on Forex, here we will review the main points of trading with this
financial tool and try to answer the question: What is a good leverage
ratio? But first, let's define the key concept.

## What is Leverage Ratio?

![LiteForex: Best Leverage for Forex Trading: What Ratio is Good for
Newbies & Pros  | LiteForex][2]

Leverage on Forex is the amount of trading funds that the broker is
willing to lend to your investment based on the ratio of your capital to
the amount of credit funds.

The total amount of leverage provided by the broker is not constant.
Brokers set their rates, which in some cases can reach 1:100 or even
more. Forex leverage is mostly expressed as a ratio. In this example, it
means that with the equity of $1, you can open positions for up to $100.

## What Leverage Ratio is Good for a Beginner

![LiteForex: Best Leverage for Forex Trading: What Ratio is Good for
Newbies & Pros  | LiteForex][3]

Let's figure out what is the best leverage level for a beginner. Many
newbies are attracted to the leverage-based earning strategy as they
want to make more money in a short period of time.

However, remember that leverage is associated with certain risks. You
need to at least understand the concepts that are directly related to
money management in leveraged trading, such as:

  * Balance and Equity of your account;
  * Margin;
  * Free margin;
  * Account Level;
  * Margin Call and Stop Out.

If any of these concepts is unfamiliar to you, be sure to read[][4][this
][4][article][4] for a detailed description with clear examples.

### Benefits of leverage use

First, let's take a look at the benefits of leverage for a novice
trader:

####  **1\. Chance of making super high profits**

Using leverage on Forex gives traders the opportunity to increase their
initial investment in order to play big.

##### Best leverage ratio example

For example, a trader who has only 1 thousand dollars on their account
can actually trade on the Forex market with 50 thousand dollars with a
leverage of 1:50 or 100 thousand dollars using a leverage of 1:100.
Simply put, this trader risks losing 1,000 dollars of their own funds,
but if successful, will receive a profit of $100,000 if the position was
opened at 100% margin and the leverage 1:100.

#### 2\. **Improving capital efficiency**

![LiteForex: Best Leverage for Forex Trading: What Ratio is Good for
Newbies & Pros  | LiteForex][5]

For example, if your account balance is $1000 and you use a leverage of
1:100, you will in fact have 100,000 USD to manage. This means you have
the opportunity to open more trades in various trading instruments and
apply hedging techniques for additional protection against risks
(hedging and its strategies are discussed in detail[][6][here][6]). This
allows you to diversify your portfolio, reduce risks, and increase the
chances of making a profit.

3\. **Low entry level**

![LiteForex: Best Leverage for Forex Trading: What Ratio is Good for
Newbies & Pros  | LiteForex][7]

Let's look at this advantage using the previous example - you have 1,000
dollars on your account. Let's say that you don’t use leverage, i.e. you
trade 1:1.

Under these conditions, at best, you will be able to open one position
with a minimum lot of 0.01, and not even on the [EUR/USD][8] pair.

![LiteForex: Best Leverage for Forex Trading: What Ratio is Good for
Newbies & Pros  | LiteForex][9]

This is because on Forex one lot is usually 100,000 currency units. In
other words, to open a minimum position in one of the most traded pairs
on the Forex market – EURUSD – you need 100,000 * 0.01 * 1.17470 =
1,174.70 USD.

With 1,000 dollars on your account and no leverage, you will not have
the opportunity to open even such a small position. However, thanks to
the large leverage, even people with a small deposit of 50-100 dollars
have a chance to access the art of trading and trade on a par with
professionals.

#### 4\. Favorable financial conditions

Before, when brokers provided no leverage, the only opportunity to trade
with leverage was borrowing a very limited amount of funds from the Bank
at high-interest rates, huge collaterals and guarantees.

In the face of serious competition, Forex brokers provide large leverage
to attract clients with a very small amount of the deposit and with
minimal commissions. If you trade intraday, using leverage will be
almost free. If you decide to carry the trade overnight, take SWAP into
account – it’s the broker’s overnight commission.

> The deposit growth of the [high-risk traders][10] can easily reach up
to 300-500% profitability per month, which is much higher than in any
bank.

#### 5\. **Convenience**

![LiteForex: Best Leverage for Forex Trading: What Ratio is Good for
Newbies & Pros  | LiteForex][11]

It is important to understand that the main income of a decent broker
comes from the commissions for opening trades, SWAPs and spreads.
Therefore, it is very important for a broker that each client uses their
services as long as possible, achieves success in trading and becomes
rich. A decent broker does not need you to drain your entire deposit and
swear to never trade on Forex again.

Therefore, in a highly competitive environment, Forex brokers provide an
opportunity to choose leverage on favorable [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) at low interest rates,
a flexible tariff schedule, and minimal commissions. Often reputable
brokers even offer the personal manager services. A personal manager
will help you understand all the nuances, choose the optimal leverage
and balance your trading strategy.

#### 6\. Security

![LiteForex: Best Leverage for Forex Trading: What Ratio is Good for
Newbies & Pros  | LiteForex][12]

You've probably heard about Margin Call. Many traders are scared
breathless of these two words. But in fact, this function is designed to
protect your deposit. Unfortunately, it often happens that novice
traders misjudge their risks. When it becomes obvious to the broker that
the chance of you losing your deposit is high, they call or send you an
auto-message about the need to replenish your balance to cover high
risks.

Sometimes negligent traders forget about leverage and the obligations
associated with it. As a result of unreasonable trading, they can turn
into the debtors of the company. To avoid this, use the services of
brokers that guarantee zero balance in case of liquidation of trade.
Thanks to this feature, you will never lose more than what you have on
your balance.

### Disadvantages of forex leverage

However, there is a dark side to leverage. Beginners should pay close
attention to the disadvantages of forex leverage.

Let's break them down:

#### 1\. High risk of losing your deposit

![LiteForex: Best Leverage for Forex Trading: What Ratio is Good for
Newbies & Pros  | LiteForex][13]

This risk is a psychological trap that a trader falls into when using a
high leverage. There is a feeling you have a lot of free money that you
need to use and invest in something. It is very important for every
beginner to remember that leverage not only gives additional
opportunities but also creates obligations. The most important one is to
cover losses at the expense of your own funds in order to prevent Stop
Out (you can find a detailed description with examples here).

Since with the large leverage you can open positions hundreds of times
larger than your real funds, there is a risk of incurring enormous
losses to your balance. This situation is especially dangerous when
several large positions are open at once. If you get losses in one
trade, your account level decreases for all other open positions and the
risk of Stop Out in these trades increases. In other words, if you abuse
a free margin, your large structure of positions can collapse in a
moment like a house of cards and burn up your deposit.

#### 2\.  It’s very hard to recover the deposit



![LiteForex: Best Leverage for Forex Trading: What Ratio is Good for
Newbies & Pros  | LiteForex][14]

As mentioned above, it is very easy to incur a big loss on your balance
with a large leverage. Newbies naively believe that since the leverage
is large, it is quite easy to get the account back to its previous size.
But you should always remember that to compensate for losses,
profitability must be many times higher. For example, if with 100 USD on
your balance, you get a loss of 50%, to return to a break-even position,
you need to make 100% profit from the balance of 50 USD.

Below is a table for calculating the percentage of profit to return to
the breakeven point in case of losses. I recommend printing it out and
placing it in front of the working screen as a reminder to follow risk
management rules.

 **% loss**

 **from the starting balance**

|

 **% profit to cover loss**  
  
---|---  
  
 **10%**

|

 **11.11%**  
  
 **20%**

|

 **25.00%**  
  
 **30%**

|

 **42.85%**  
  
 **40%**

|

 **66.66%**  
  
 **50%**

|

 **100.00%**  
  
 **60%**

|

 **150.00%**  
  
 **70%**

|

 **233.00%**  
  
 **80%**

|

 **400.00%**  
  
 **90%**

|

 **900.00%**  
  
 **100%**

|  **Your deposit is gone ☹**  
  


In the case of large leverage, with losses on the balance your
purchasing power falls as well, available funds for collateral decrease,
and therefore the risk of Stop Out increases. This is usually
compensated for by a decrease in the volume of positions, which in turn
reduces the potential profitability, i.e. it will be even more difficult
to recover in the end.

It is important to always remember that using low, medium or maximum
leverage on Forex is a commitment. You return the main value of the
leverage in the form of swap regardless of whether you succeed or fail
at the end of the trading day. The leverage cost must be covered by the
trader's account and will be automatically deducted from their balance.

Swap is a commission for using leverage that is automatically withdrawn
from the trader’s balance. Obviously, the cost of leverage directly
depends on the volume of its use. The broker usually charges the
commission only for the actual amount of funds used.

### What is the best leverage level for a beginner?

>  **If you are new to Forex, the ideal start would be to use 1:10
leverage and 10,000 USD balance. So, the best leverage for a beginner is
definitely not higher than the ratio from 1 to 10.**

How do you find the best leverage in Forex for you? Obviously, the
answer to this question will be different for each trader.

So let's try to figure out what a good leverage ratio is.

#### So what leverage is the safest?

The table below shows the calculation of the required collateral and
deposit change for leverages with a classic lot of 100,000 USD.

 **Leverage**

|

 **Change in currency pairs, %**

|

 **Position size in lots**

|

 **Margin, USD**

|

 **Balance change,**

 **%**  
  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
 **1:100**

|

 **1%**

|

 **1**

|

 **1000**

|

 **100%**  
  
 **1:50**

|

 **1%**

|

 **1**

|

 **2000**

|

 **50%**  
  
 **1:33**

|

 **1%**

|

 **1**

|

 **3000**

|

 **33%**  
  
 **1:20**

|

 **1%**

|

 **1**

|

 **5000**

|

 **20%**  
  
 **1:10**

|

 **1%**

|

 **1**

|

 **10000**

|

 **10%**  
  
 **1:5**

|

 **1%**

|

 **1**

|

 **20000**

|

 **5%**  
  
 **1:3**

|

 **1%**

|

 **1**

|

 **33000**

|

 **3%**  
  
 **1:1**

|

 **1%**

|

 **1**

|

 **100000**

|

 **1%**  
  


Suppose that we are ready to start trading with a deposit of 1000 USD,
with an acceptable risk per trade of 1% to the balance and an acceptable
position drawdown of 1% with maximum portfolio diversification.

 **Leverage**

|

 **Position drawdown, %**

|

 **Maximum number of positions**

|

 **Balance, USD**

|

 **Risk for account per position, %**  
  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
 **1:100**

|

 **1%**

|

 **100**

|

 **1000**

|

 **0.01%**  
  
 **1:50**

|

 **1%**

|

 **50**

|

 **1000**

|

 **0.02%**  
  
 **1:33**

|

 **1%**

|

 **33**

|

 **1000**

|

 **0.03%**  
  
 **1:20**

|

 **1%**

|

 **20**

|

 **1000**

|

 **0.05%**  
  
 **1:10**

|

 **1%**

|

 **10**

|

 **1000**

|

 **0.10%**  
  
 **1:5**

|

 **1%**

|

 **5**

|

 **1000**

|

 **0.20%**  
  
 **1:3**

|

 **1%**

|

 **3**

|

 **1000**

|

 **0.33%**  
  
 **1:1**

|

 **1%**

|

 **1**

|

 **1000**

|

 **1.00%**  
  


Now we will calculate the maximum size of positions that we can open and
the risk per trade, subject to the above rules.

In the table above, we see that with such risk management requirements,
the optimal leverage on Forex is 100:1, since in this case we will be
able to open 100 positions at once that meet our risk management rule,
or several positions with a minimum risk.

From this example, it is obvious that for trading with a lower leverage,
you need to increase your deposit so that you can actively trade with
the required level of diversification.

You may say that this is a contradiction. How does trading with a large
leverage reduce risks? In fact, there is no contradiction. Liquidation
risks do go down with higher leverage, provided that trading volumes
remain the same.

>  **All the disadvantages high leverage I told of above relate to the
psychology of a trader and violation of[money management rules][15],
which is why it is so important to work on your trading strategy and
discipline in trading. Then the high leverage will not be a problem and
will not lead to losing the deposit.** _ ****_

![LiteForex: Best Leverage for Forex Trading: What Ratio is Good for
Newbies & Pros  | LiteForex][16]

 **So, what’s left for [beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/) who are advised to use a 1:10 leverage
but don’t have $10,000 and want to trade successfully, making money
now?**

  1.  **Decide on your trading style.** Are you going to actively trade intraday or catch medium-term trends? Or maybe you would like to collect a portfolio and forget about it for a while? I hope that it is clear from the material described above - the longer the horizon of trades, the larger size of the deposit is needed.
  2. It is very important to **study theory** and the market in which you are going to trade. You absolutely need to master basic technical analysis.  **Understand the specifics of the market** \- [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/), reports, multipliers, indicators and other factors that can influence the price of your favorite instrument.
  3.  **Trade only with the money you are mentally ready to lose**. It may sound old-fashioned but it's true! Following this rule, you will relieve yourself of unnecessary stress and trade with calm confidence.
  4. Feel free to **seek advice from more experienced colleagues**. It's okay to ask questions, but it's important to do it right. Try to ask closed-ended questions with a yes-or-no answer. Such questions require preparation and effort, which will give you the right answer in 80% of cases.
  5. If you realize you cannot spend enough time for active trading but you want to invest, the solution can be in **social trading, where you copy other experienced traders** (check this out [here][17]). Choosing a real professional is an entire science and I would need a separate article for this. But do not trust the entire deposit to one manager. Share risks between different traders.
  6.  **Do not use the entire margin for one trade**. Better to have 100 different positions with a minimum lot of 0.01 than one trade with a lot size of 1.
  7.  **Remember to use stop loss**! Do not allow the loss on one position to exceed 2% of the deposit.
  8.  **Don't stop perfecting your risk management system**. Determine the maximum allowable risk for the amount of open positions. Monitor compliance with the risks for each position. Keep track of the account level. Avoid stop out.
  9.  **Do not open a position without a predetermined trading plan**. Identify the entry-level, take profit and stop loss, the signal for increasing the position and the signal for exiting the market.
  10.  **Keep a trader's journal**! Write down trade parameters, entry and exit signals, even the emotional state when entering and exiting the market. Keeping a journal will make trading more mindful and provide a basis for introspection and learning from your own mistakes.

## How to Choose Best Forex Broker with High Leverage?

![LiteForex: Best Leverage for Forex Trading: What Ratio is Good for
Newbies & Pros  | LiteForex][18]

From the examples above we concluded that high leverage is okay. If you
follow the rules of risk management and have proper trading discipline,
high leverage is more of an advantage.

>  **However, do you need to find a broker with a leverage of 1:1,000 or
more?**

>

>  **The answer is NO.**

There is simply no [liquidity provider](https://www.fintechee.com/services/liquidity-provider/) on the foreign exchange market
that would cover leverage of more than 1000:1. So any Forex broker with
leverage like 1:2,000 should immediately raise suspicion. Most likely,
this broker’s leverage is either created by overlapping trades of other
participants in the opposite direction or virtually, which means this is
a bucket shop and you are being conned.

Another sign of an unreliable broker is that you cannot trade directly
with a [liquidity provider](https://www.fintechee.com/services/liquidity-provider/) using a raw market spread. Bucket shops
usually don’t provide such a service.

Pay attention to customer service as well. Brokers who take care of
their clients have a service that works around the clock and answers any
requests quickly. Such brokers also provide a personal manager service
for large clients and a wide tariff range for each client.

If you analyze the broker market, you will surely notice Liteforex. It
has many advantages over other brokers:

  * more than 15 years of experience on the Forex market;

  * a wide range of trading instruments (currencies, CFDs, stocks, indices, metals, hydrocarbons, and cryptocurrencies);

  * direct access to the market with minimum spread;

  * low swaps on classic Forex or no swaps on Islamic accounts;

  * protection against negative balance;

  * customizable leverage from 1:1 up to 1:1000;

  * 24/7 customer support;

  * own free educational programs and training materials;

  * powerful analytical support;

  * large community, a platform for communication and exchange of experience;

  * access to social trading.

As you may have noticed, LiteForex can offer the best leverage ratio you
need.

### How does high leverage ratio work?

 **Let's take a popular currency pair -[GBP/USD][19]. **

_Without leverage, opening a trade with a contract size of 100,000 per
lot will require the trader to invest about $130,000._

 _Using 1:1000 leverage, one can drastically reduce the amount of
capital required. $130,000 / 1000 (leverage used) = $130._

 _The balance of 130 USD would be enough to enter the trade in full!_

 _However, remember that the Stop Out level with LiteForex is 20%. With
130 dollars on your balance, it’s 26 dollars._

 _So for the trade to be closed by Stop Out, the drawdown will have to
be 104 USD._

 _Considering that you entered with a full lot, the price has to go only
104 points (in 5-digit representation) from the point of entry in the
"wrong" direction for your trade to be closed by Stop Out. As you
understand, this is a colossal risk._

## Overall best leverage for Forex with Examples

![LiteForex: Best Leverage for Forex Trading: What Ratio is Good for
Newbies & Pros  | LiteForex][20]

As we have seen, the best leverage ratio on Forex is a relative term. In
addition, this tool must be used with care. Using too high a leverage
can either bring incredible profits or ruin the trader.

The best leverage for Forex trading depends on the capital at the
trader's disposal. It is believed that a ratio of 1:100 to 1:200 is the
best leverage for Forex. In this case, a trader can get tangible
benefits from margin trading, provided correct risk management. A
leverage of 1:100 means that with $500 in the account, a trader can open
trades with a total volume of $50,000, which is the optimal amount to
start trading on the foreign exchange market. At the same time, it is
vitally important to follow your own risk management rules, not to abuse
free margin and always keep a reserve of funds for potential closing of
all open positions by stop loss in order to avoid early liquidation of
active trades.

>  **Best leverage in [Forex trading](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/) depends on the capital owned by the
trader. It is agreed that 1:100 to 1:200 is the best forex leverage
ratio.**

>

>  **Leverage of 1:100 means that with $500 in the account, the trader
has $50,000 of credit funds provided by the broker to open trades. So
1:100 leverage is the best leverage to be used in [Forex trading](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/).**

## Conclusion

Leverage is a progressive tool for traders to achieve good results. The
obvious advantage of using leverage is that you can make a lot of money
with only a limited amount of capital. However, it is impossible to
choose the best leverage to use in Forex for both [beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/) and
professional participants. This choice largely depends on the starting
balance, trading strategy and the chosen risk management model. At the
same time, the best Forex leverage is considered to be 1:100. This is a
compromise between sufficient purchasing power and the risks of
automatic liquidation of positions by Stop Out. This leverage ratio is
favored by both [beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/) and experienced traders. However, one should
always remember about the risks that high leverage carries.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][21]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][22] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

![Best Leverage Ratio for Forex Trading][23]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/forex-leverage/
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/kakoe-kreditnoe-plecho-luchshe-vybrat/the_best_leverage_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=590a71d96d53247ac1805c69f1706af8
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/kakoe-kreditnoe-plecho-luchshe-vybrat/the_best_leverage_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=bdf6333ee22a9b4977474625b2c461ca
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/what-is-a-margin-call-and-stop-out-in-forex/
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/kakoe-kreditnoe-plecho-luchshe-vybrat/EURUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=addd5fb51ec048505ac75e909b0f9098
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/hedging2/
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/kakoe-kreditnoe-plecho-luchshe-vybrat/the_best_leverage_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=10e2ea1f42797f3917541f41cdfb9b64
   8. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/what-is-leverage-in-trading/best-leverage-forex/example-of-a-trade-with-1-1-leverage.png?w=30&s=cdbb70986a9c1718523581cbfba78358
   10. my.liteforex.com/traders?type=profit
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/kakoe-kreditnoe-plecho-luchshe-vybrat/the_best_leverage_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=da32a8baf292e9c71852a5f8809fc54b
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/kakoe-kreditnoe-plecho-luchshe-vybrat/the_best_leverage_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=c91838741d3363dac2ccfe074edc78e8
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/kakoe-kreditnoe-plecho-luchshe-vybrat/the_best_leverage_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=48124029e369ab513d6e40ee0b2979e5
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/kakoe-kreditnoe-plecho-luchshe-vybrat/the_best_leverage_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=036052a830258d9df13f3a4e51c81548
   15. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/greed-vs-common-sense-money-management/
   16. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/kakoe-kreditnoe-plecho-luchshe-vybrat/the_best_leverage_hypov_10.jpg?w=30&s=8008c91d8e1d1a9c9523299cc8eebe18
   17. www.liteforex.com/social-trading/
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/kakoe-kreditnoe-plecho-luchshe-vybrat/the_best_leverage_hypov_11.jpg?w=30&s=8171630d0adcefb96b40762f48f39cb0
   19. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD
   20. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/kakoe-kreditnoe-plecho-luchshe-vybrat/the_best_leverage_hypov_12.jpg?w=30&s=8daf03138a648f4b54c5c056cfabf8ac
   21. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=forex-leverage&slug2=best-leverage&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   22. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=forex-leverage&slug2=best-leverage&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   23. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/kakoe-kreditnoe-plecho-luchshe-vybrat/the_best_leverage_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=7a1da79184b30de77fee182f9a8e6060