+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-31"
description = "Forecast for EURUSD for 31 July 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for EURUSD for 31 July 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 31, 2020

July 31, 2020

Forecast for EUR/USD: Dollar lost its nervesDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental forecast for dollar for today

### Donald Trump eclipses US macrostatistics again

If Donald Trump hadn’t lost his nerves, [EUR/USD][1] bears could have
prevented the attack of their opponents following the publication of
statistics on the US GDP and jobless claims.  The US president suggested
the November presidential election be postponed until people can vote
properly and safely. Asking to a question during his press conference
later on, he replied: “Do I want to see a date change? No. But I don’t
want to see a crooked election”. Politics has always been a negative
factor for the greenback. The euro had a new impulse to rally on the
early interference of the political factor.

According to Deutsche Bank, all that potentially delays a smooth
transition of power is a source of uncertainty for dollar assets and
negatively affects the US currency. The election will hardly be delayed
as it’s the power of Congress. The Republican leaders didn’t welcome
Trump’s suggestion but they can be contested.  If the current president
loses, the risk of such a scenario will increase.

The president’s tweets eclipsed the US economy’s worst drawdown since
1940 (minus 32.9%) and growth of jobless claims to 1.43 million. We can
say goodbye to a V-shape recovery of GDP.  The States’ situation is
extremely bad: the fear of infection decreases economic activity, the
unemployment rate is growing and a fiscal stimulus package cut reduces
consumer spending. However, these factors aren’t new and they have
already been considered in [EUR/USD][1]’s quotes .

### Jobless claims in the USA

### ![LiteForex: Forecast for EURUSD for 31 July 2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Statistics on the German GDP turned out worse than expected (-10.1%
q/q). Still, Goldman Sachs believes Europe’s economic growth will outrun
the US in 2020 due to a better local control over the virus, better
macro-indicators and a better package of monetary and fiscal stimuli. JP
Morgan forecasts that Germany’s GDP will drop 4.3% this year and will
exceed its pre-crisis level in 2021. Its American peer will have been
2.5% less than the pre-pandemic value by the end of the next year after
its 5.2% reduction in 2020.

Covid dictates to both economy and politics. A new series of US downbeat
statistics may draw the economic surprise index down from the area of
record highs, and the uncertainty about the elections may become a new
driver for [EUR/USD][1] bulls. The level of $1.2 that seemed unreachable
in the middle of May becomes closer and closer. I wouldn’t be surprised
if my [forecast of $1.22][3] was realised earlier than expected. Buying
at retracements remains the main work strategy, even more so because
there can be a new reason for that soon. Publications of European GDP
values are likely to indicate that other economies of the eurozone felt
worse than Germany in Q2.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Forecast for EUR/USD: Dollar lost its nerves][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/jobless-claims-31-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=36baef6c72628088059a3151f537ae20
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/eurusd-forecast-three-reasons-to-sell-us-dollar/
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forecast-for-eurusd-dollar-lost-its-nerves&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forecast-for-eurusd-dollar-lost-its-nerves&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-31-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=3046086fd00d64cb16e4513d4aca974b