+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-31"
description = "Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 31, 2020

July 31, 2020

Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USDAlex Rodionov

##  **O** **il price forecast for next wee** **k: USCrude analysis**

Oil price stays in the uptrend. The price has stopped before a
resistance level - Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92].

Since the players cannot break through this zone, a correction might
develop. The goal of any correction is to gain liquidity at favourable
prices before moving the trend further.

For the next week, I recommend waiting for the oil correction in the
area of the key support of the trend [35.54 - 34.86]. After testing the
zone, look for new longs according to the pattern with the target in the
July high.

The second scenario is the breakout of TZ 5 and consolidation. In this
case, during the retest of the broken-through zone, look for an entry
point for a long position with a target in the area of TZ 6 [49.17 -
48.42].

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][1]

###  **[USCrude][2]Trading tips for the upcoming week:**

Buy according to the pattern from Target Zone [35.54 - 34.86].
TakeProfit: 42.22. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold** **price forecast for next wee** **k:** **XAUUSD**
**analysis** ****

Gold has broken through Target Zone 8 [1937.2 - 1931.2] this week. For
the next week, set the target in the Target Zone 9 [1997.2 - 1991.2].

Target Zone [1901.1 - 1892.9] can be built down from the current local
maximum. This area will be the key support level of the medium-term
uptrend.

For new longs at favourable prices, I suggest waiting for gold reaching
the key support level and then looking for a pattern for longs.

Medium-term shorts on gold are not reasonable at the moment. Shorting
requires a test of the TZ 9 resistance, and then the formation of a
reversal pattern. Short positions, in this case, will be against the
trend.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][3]

###  **[XAUUSD][4] Trading tips for the upcoming week:**

Buy according to the pattern from Target Zone [1901.1 - 1892.9].
TakeProfit: 1981, Target Zone 9 [1997.2 - 1991.2]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **E** **uro/dollar price forecast for next wee** **k:** **EURUSD**
**analysis** ****

There is a strong medium-term uptrend in the euro, and it is
unreasonable to oppose it forming short trades. A general trading
recommendation is to buy the euro at pullbacks from strong support
levels.

Let's analyze the instrument from the position of the margin zones. This
week the euro has broken through Target Zone 3 [1.1732 - 1.1714] and
reached Target Zone 4 [1.1914 - 1.1896]. As long as the resistance level
holds, one cannot speak of further growth.

If the level 1.1914 is broken through the next week, then the next
target for longs will be Target Zone 5 [1.2096 - 1.2078].

The trend border is shifted to the marks [1.1726 - 1.1708]. If the local
maximum is renewed, the support zone will have to be placed higher.

According to my approach, I suggest waiting for a correction to the
Target Zone [1.1726 - 1.1708], then waiting for the reaction of buyers
and a signal to open a trade (pattern) to form new longs on the euro.
Take-profit can be placed at the maximum of this week.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][5]

###  **[EURUSD][6] Trading tips for the upcoming week:**

Buy according to the pattern from Target Zone [1.1726 - 1.1708].
TakeProfit: 1.1910. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][7]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][8] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][9]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/USCrude_analysis_310720.png?w=30&s=858efb34dfe4c8ebf0b99bc4ac7a61a3
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_310720.png?w=30&s=86e14a88b389a14079f9cd1784b8c669
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_310720.png?w=30&s=4fc5f3cf40f9703d8e69a94f8e635b3d
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   7. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-2020-07-31&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-2020-07-31&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/trading_11.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=4cb92366132aaa0810cb63eb2ce5f94c