+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-23"
description = "Price forecast for Australian dollar as of 23 September 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Price forecast for Australian dollar as of 23 September 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-23

2020-09-23

Commodity currencies outdo the dollar. Forecast for AUDUSD, NZDUSD and
USDNOK as of 23.09.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The second pandemic wave and the USD index’ previous reactions to US
presidential elections breathed new life into the greenback. Will it be
able to break out its downtrend against the major currencies, or is it a
mere correction?

## Monthly fundamental forecast

In 2018-2019, the markets held breathing, watching trade wars, but in
2020, it’s the pandemic that rules Forex. Where is the epidemiological
situation better? Which country will suffer the least from a lockdown?
Whose economy will recover faster? Those bets worked out regularly. The
situation around COVID-19 is getting worse, and it makes [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s rush
to the US dollar. It happened in spring, when macrostatistics on other
countries and competitive banks’ actions were ignored. It may happen
again amid the second coronavirus wave and growing risks of the global
economy’s double recession.

The Dollar smile theory seems to have been thrown into a dustbin. Based
on that theory, the dollar is supposed to grow amidst a higher demand
for safe haven assets in a crisis situation, fall on the Fed’s
aggressive monetary expansion, and finally grow again amid the US
economy’s outperformance.  However, the second wave of the pandemic in
Europe makes the theory relevant again, and the USD index is supposed to
grow faster than expected. What’s more, according to SEB’s research,
the dollar tends to appreciate within 100 days following US Presidential
elections in nine cases out of ten. That makes its fans even more
optimistic.

### USD evolution following US presidential elections

 _Source: Bloomberg._

When everyone else is focused on the dollar, ignoring other factors, we
may wonder: what should we sell then? The answer lies in Bloomberg’s
analysis of G10 currencies’ sensitivity to the USD’s index fall. The
Norwegian krone and the British pound were the most vulnerable to the
greenback’s appreciation, while the Canadian dollar and the Japanese yen
were the most resistant.

### Currency pairs’ reaction to moves in the USD

 _Source: Bloomberg._

I think we shouldn’t fall into panic. What do you personally think about
the future? Will the global economy face new lockdowns and double
recession, or will the second wave of COVID-19 be less damaging than the
first one? Health care workers got a priceless experience and are now
prepared better than before; a mass vaccination campaign is coming.  My
glass is half full, and I think the current USD rally is a correction.

At the end of the day, the currencies closely connected to China will
benefit from this situation the most: the Chinese economy is expected to
rise 1.8% in 2020, according to OECD. The yuan starts playing a more
important role in the Forex market, which is proved by its growing
correlation with the G10 currencies.

### Yuan’s correlation with G10 currencies



 _Source: Bloomberg._

## Weekly and monthly trading plans for G10 currencies

So, the global epidemiological situation’s further aggravation will
allow us to buy [USDNOK][1] and sell [AUDJPY][2], [AUDCAD][3],
[AUDUSD][4]  and [GBPUSD][5]. Nonetheless, the Australian dollar’s
drawdown to supports at $0.695 and $0.685 will be a good opportunity for
opening long positions in the long term. The same applies to the NZ
dollar: after [NZDUSD][6]’s correction to $0.648 and $0.64, we can buy
it cheaper.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][7]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][8] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDNOK
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDJPY&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDCAD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NZDUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=commodity-currencies-outdo-the-dollar-forecast-for-audusd-nzdusd-and-usdnok-as-of-23092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=commodity-currencies-outdo-the-dollar-forecast-for-audusd-nzdusd-and-usdnok-as-of-23092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus