+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-23"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (23 September 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (23 September 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-23

2020-09-23

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 23.09.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

EURUSD reached Target Zone [1.1717 – 1.1697] yesterday. All sell trades
entered in Intermediary Zone [1.1847 - 1.1837] should have been exited
by the take profit. Oil price, after the growth from the key support of
the middle-term uptrend [37.34 – 36.72], has slowed down. The growth
stopped after the test of Target Zone 5 [41.67 — 40.92].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

After the growth from the key support of the middle-term uptrend [37.34
– 36.72], the oil price has slowed down. The growth stopped after the
test of Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. Sellers are reacting to the test
of the zone this week.

There is a 1-2-3 pattern in the chart, so one could enter oil purchases.
The target for these purchases is the high of August. I recommend
entering long trades at the current price according to Price Action
patterns.

Let us analyze the oil price chart in the one-hour timeframe. The short-
term oil trend is up, the target is Target Zone [42.85 - 42.23]. The
price tested the trend key support. Expect a buy pattern.

An alternative scenario to sell oil. The price breaks out Intermediary
Zone [38.72 – 38.45] and consolidates below the zone. If so, the local
trend will turn down, and the sell target will be the lower Target Zone
[35.97 — 35.42].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [38.72 - 38.45].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [42.85 - 42.23]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold price is trading in the medium-term downtrend. Yesterday, the price
broke out the triangle technical pattern downside and consolidated below
the support zone. The price started falling immediately after that.

The market is driving to another sell target, level 1862.3. If two US
sessions close the price below Target Zone 1922.4 - 1913.1], the
downside target will in Target Zone 2 [1829.4 — 1820.1].

In the short-term downtrend, the price is breaking out Target Zone
[1899.4 - 1890.1]. If sellers break out below the zone, the next target
will be Gold Zone [1852.9 – 1848.2].

I suggest entering new sell trades according to the patterns on the
corrections to the strong resistances, Additional Zone [1900.0 -
1897.7], and Intermediary Zone [1925.6 – 1921.0].

It is not relevant to buy.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Hold a part of sell trades entered in the zone of [1933.4 - 1905.5].
TakeProfit: Gold Zone [1852.9 - 1848.2]. StopLoss: at the breakeven.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro/dollar broke out 1.1752, so, the medium-term trend turned down.
For this and next week, the primary sell target will be to reach the
support Target Zone 2 [1.1611 – 1.1591].

Enter sell trades on the correction into the zone of [1.1811 — 1.1752].

Let us switch to a shorter timeframe. The euro is trading in the short-
term downtrend. Bears are trying to break out Target Zone [1.1717 –
1.1697]. If they succeed, the next downside target will be Gold Zone
[1.1617 – 1.1607].

The price reached Target Zone [1.1717 – 1.1697] yesterday. All sell
trades entered in Intermediary Zone [1.1847 – 1.1837] should have been
closed. I congratulate my colleagues on the profit.

To enter new sell trades, I recommend expecting the correction to the
strong resistance zone and enter trades according to the pattern.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1727 - 1.1722]. TakeProfit: 1.1674. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1782 - 1.1772]. TakeProfit: 1.1674. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-23092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-23092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus