+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-23"
description = "Christine Lagarde and her colleagues took past experience into account"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Christine Lagarde and her colleagues took past experience into account"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-07-23

2021-07-23

ECB relies on past experience. Review as of 23.07.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Christine Lagarde and her colleagues took past experience into account

## Hot summer and hot debates at ECB's meeting

Never argue with a woman. You'll be ashamed of both winning and losing.
Christine Lagarde must be well aware of that: she does whatever she
wants and twists the male members of the Governing Council around her
little finger. What's interesting is that it doesn't look like Mario
Draghi's excessive independence -- he wouldn't even try to make a
compromise and said whatever had come to his mind. Christine Lagarde
maneuvers successfully between the hawks and the doves of the ECB, and
the former have had to agree with her so far.

I always know when my wife doesn't feel well. If she keeps silent, she's
ill. So, Christine Lagarde feels well. She was pretty eloquent when
talking to journalists after the Governing Council's meeting. Nobody
even suspected that the debate had been quite heated. Jens Weidmann and
Pierre Wunsch are indignant at not raising the interest rate until
inflation reaches the 2% target well ahead of the end of its projection
horizon in the long term. Such prospects don't look understandable and
imply leaving borrowing costs at the present level for at least the
nearest five years. The hawks were so outraged that one of them left the
meeting before its end, slamming the door.

Germany's lobby group in the ECB often went off into hysterics, gave up
their chairs, or even brought a lawsuit against QE, accusing it of
violating a ban on the direct financing of governments. Jens Weidmann
still believes that the €1.85 trillion emergency bond-buying program
must be withdrawn once the pandemic ends. The Central Bank has already
decided it will end in March 2022. Isn't that too optimistic?

What doesn’t kill you doesn't last long after. QE isn't a panacea for
the eurozone's all problems, but I'm sure it will do more good than harm
in the current circumstances. And the program appears to last long -- if
not in the form of PEPP, then in the form of increasing assets buyout
volumes under previous QE programs. It sounds like reincarnation!

Mme Lagarde explained that the ECB wouldn't withdraw monetary support
ahead of time not to hamper the eurozone's economic recovery, relying on
past experience. She must mean her predecessor Jean-Claude Trichet who
raised the rate and provoked a recession in the currency bloc. The
strategy of learning from the mistakes of others is good, and so is an
ability to remember them.

> \- Remind me to tell you a sad story

>

> \- About memory?

The [EURUSD][1]'s reaction to the ECB's meeting in July is just "much
ado about nothing." After an upsurge and a subsequent fall, the pair
returned to the previous levels. Now, wait for the dust to settle or to
be raised again. Around the Fed's meeting, this time. However, that's
how the market lives: moving from one event to another. Get used to it
already.











## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true