+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-23"
description = "Euro price forecast 23 July 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 23 July 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-07-23

2021-07-23

Euro corrects mistakes. Forecast as of 23.07.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Christine Lagarde found the words to support the ECB doves, which caused
a shock for the [EURUSD][1]. The euro will be under pressure until the
Fed meeting. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading
plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

One wrong move can undermine many months, and even years, of efforts to
return the economy to the trend after the recession. The ECB doesn’t
want to make the same mistakes again. Christine Lagarde promised that
the European Central Bank has learned from the errors of past crises and
won’t derail the current economic recovery by withdrawing emergency
support too early. The [EURUSD][1] crashed.

Both the Fed and the European Central Bank have their own fears. Jerome
Powell and his colleagues are worried so as not to provoke another taper
tantrum by an unexpected announcement of the QE tapering, as did the
former chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben Bernanke, in 2013. Christine
Lagarde and her team are not willing to raise too early, as did the
former president of the ECB Jean-Claude Trichet in 2011, driving the
euro-area economy into the recession, which is still present.

### Dynamics of interest rates of ECB and Fed

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The euro reaction to the outcomes of the July meeting of the Governing
Council looked like a cardiogram: a rise following the message that the
European central bank intends to raise rates only if inflation reaches
the 2% target, and a sharp drop in response to the message about a
transition period, during which the regulator is ready to put up with
the CPI above target. Given the current forecasts for consumer prices,
this means that the ECB will hardly tighten its monetary before
2024-2025. In the context of a possible federal funds rate hike already
in 2022, the [EURUSD][1] downtrend should continue.

The ECB's new symmetric 2% inflation target looks like old wine in a new
bottle, the communication has changed, but the ECB remains very dovish
in general. The dispute among the ECB members indicates a clear
discontent expressed by the hawks. Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann
and Belgian Governor Pierre Wunsch opposed new European Central Bank
[policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) guidance, according to Reuters source familiar with the matter.
One member of the Governing Council, whose name was not disclosed, even
left the meeting, slamming the door. However, the fact that Christine
Lagarde managed to charm the majority testifies to the victory of the
doves.

Now, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are focused on the upcoming Fed meeting. According to the
IMF, the Fed is very effective and must continue to communicate its
views carefully to ensure that the withdrawal of monetary stimulus does
not shock financial markets and the global economy. At a meeting on July
27-28, the central bank will decide when to start tapering the QE and
when to complete this process.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

I suppose the signals of scaling-back of the US quantitative easing
program will press the EURUSD down. If the price breaks out the support
at 1.1755, the pair will continue falling to 1.1715 and 1.1665, it could
be relevant to sell. Hold down the shorts entered at level 1.1825,
moving the stop-loss to the breakeven.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true