+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-22"
description = "Euro price forecast 22 March 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 22 March 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-22

2021-03-22

Euro is sad about lost summer. Forecast as of 22.03.2021Dmitri Demidenko

When the basic scenario doesn’t work, forecasts lose their relevance. It
was earlier expected that the EU would lift the lockdowns in March.
However, the [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) are postponed now. How will it affect the euro? Let
us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

How resilient is the euro-area economy to new COVID-19 restrictions?
This question will be crucial for the [EURUSD][1] in the week ending
March 26. Slow vaccinations and often inappropriate EU actions undermine
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s’ confidence and encourage them to sell the euro. Moreover,
lockdowns can turn into another lost summer for those EU countries where
the tourism share in the GDP is significant. As a result, the euro bulls
will be challenged by the problem of the rich North and the poor South.

Emmanuel Macron's introduction of a new four-week lockdown in Paris and
Angela Merkel's proposal of additional restrictive measures in Germany,
where the national seven-day rate of infections per 100,000 people rose
to 103.9, put significant pressure on the single European currency.
According to ING, if earlier forecasts for the euro-area economy were
based on the easing of restriction measures in March, now we should
forget about it. The bank has revised down its estimate for the European
GDP for 2021 from -0.8% to 1.5%, and it is not alone. Barclays believes
the lockdown will be lifted by the end of the second quarter, weakening
domestic demand. Berenberg claims monthly quarantine deducts 0.3 % from
the euro-area GDP rate.

The situation is aggravated by the slow vaccination and the often
inappropriate EU behavior. In the European Union, 12.7% of the
population were vaccinated, in the United States - 37.6%. According to a
Bloomberg source familiar with the matter, the EU will likely reject the
export authorization of AstraZeneca Plc coronavirus vaccines to the U.K.
until the drugmaker fulfills its delivery obligations to the 27-nation
bloc. But even a couple of days ago, vaccinations with the AstraZeneca
drug were suspended due to the alleged side effects.

Against the backdrop of gloomy Europe, the United States looks like a
huge bright spot. There is a considerable divergence in the economic
growth in 2021, based on the forecasts of the ECB and the Fed. So, the
[EURUSD][1] fall is natural.

### Forecasts for euro-area and US GDPs

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The situation should radically change in 2022 amid the positive effects
of Joe Biden's fiscal stimulus. According to Bloomberg estimates,
consumers in the world's largest economies have accumulated $2.9
trillion, $1.5 trillion of which comes from the United States. According
to Allianz's research, US imports are about to boost; about $ 360
billion of the $1.9 trillion aid package will be spent on imported
goods, with China, Mexico, Canada, and Germany as the primary
beneficiaries.

### Growth of exports to the US caused by Joe Biden’s stimulus

 _Source_ _: Financial Times_

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Therefore, the [EURUSD][1] uptrend could still resume. But this will
occur later than expected, most likely in the third or fourth quarter.
Now, we should monitor the resilience of the euro-area economy and the
euro bulls' ability to manage the Treasury yields rally. I believe the
level of 1.193 is a kind of red line, which will provide clues. As long
as the EURUSD is below this level, it is relevant to sell with the
targets at 1.18 and 1.176. When the price consolidates above the
important level, it could continue the rally to 1.199, 1.204, and
higher.







## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true