+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-02"
description = "Jerome Powell was not the first to talk about the rate hike"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Jerome Powell was not the first to talk about the rate hike"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-07-02

2021-07-02

The Fed is great, but a bad taste is left. Review as of 02.07.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

Jerome Powell was not the first to talk about the rate hike

## Only the Fed is able to reverse the EURUSD trend so easily

The Fed acts like a shepherd of a flock of sheep. A huge flock of sheep.
For the ability to set the direction of its movement, the Fed should be
awarded. To understand what a crowd is, it is enough to go down the
subway during rush hour. If you die in a subway car at rush hour, you
will still most likely get off at the right station and even take an
escalator to the street. Back in early June, the Fed was able to turn
around this crowd or flock of sheep, which was actively buying up euros,
with one rate forecast! Brilliant!

Over the years, people repeat mistakes out of habit, but not in search
of new impressions. Before the June FOMC meeting, Jerome Powell talked a
lot about his unwillingness to repeat the mistakes of his predecessors,
in particular, Ben Bernanke's. In 2013, Bernanke provoked a taper
tantrum after the QE tapering statement. It should be admitted that the
current head of the Fed managed not to repeat the mistakes of his
predecessor. Not only did Powell and his team methodically prepare the
electorate for the withdrawal of monetary stimulus, but they also chose
the perfect timing for the appropriate signals. Treasury yields were
flat, low volatility and high global risk appetite fueled interest in
the carry trade and EM currencies, rumors of additional fiscal stimulus
kept stocks afloat. What kind of taper tantrum can we talk about in such
a situation?

Almost everything turned out well. After the release of the FOMC
forecasts, the [S&P 500][1] continued to rally, rates on 10-year debt
did not rise, EM assets did not significantly decrease. It was not
possible to take control of only the US dollar. Encouraged by rumors of
a federal funds rate hike, the greenback is rapidly strengthening. The $
seemed to be reminded of the dollar smile theory, when the USD index is
growing against the background of a flight to safe haven assets due to
the recession. Then it falls due to colossal monetary stimulus from the
Fed. As a result, it is strengthening again, as the US economy begins to
outstrip its peers in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of growth rates. This time, in the third
phase, the greenback is in great shape because of the Fed's intention to
move towards normalizing monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) sooner rather than later.

Who would have thought such a thing about the central bank, which at the
beginning of the year considered the possibility of targeting the bond
yield curve following the example of the Bank of Japan!

> \- Darling, I want something Japanese.

>

> \- Maybe harakiri?

It didn't go too bad. Although the problem with the transition from the
wait-and-see approach and the readiness to allow the economy to overheat
to the classical approach of managing inflation had to be solved.
However, the main thing in solving any problem is to prevent its
creation! The Fed withstood the test with brilliance, but personally for
me it left a bad taste in the mouth. Remember who was the first to talk
about monetary restriction? It was Janet Yellen who said the US economy
could afford to end next year with a higher rate. That would be great
for it. But not so long ago Jerome Powell was in the shadow of the
"country teacher", eagerly listening to her words. Is he doing it now?









## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true