+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-02"
description = "US dollar price forecast 2 July 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 2 July 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-07-02

2021-07-02

Dollar believes in predictions. Forecast as of 02.07.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

If consumers’ concerns about skyrocketing prices continue pushing the
inflation expectations up, high inflation expectations will become a
reality. How will this affect [EURUSD][1]? Let us discuss the Forex
outlook and make up a trading plan.

## US dollar fundamental forecast for today

Reputable organizations raise forecasts for US GDP growth. Europe, on
the contrary, faces a significant loss of tourism revenue compared to
2019 due to the spread of the COVID-19 delta variant and the absence of
the British. The president of the Bundesbank, Jens Weidmann, __is the
only one who claims that the ECB should not put up with high inflation.
Investors expect a positive report of US employment. So, the[EURUSD][2]
bulls are set back. The euro is falling despite the [S&P 500][3] rally
for six consecutive days. Have the euro bulls lost?

The Congressional Budget Office has raised estimates of economic growth
and inflation in the States from 3.7% to 7.4% and from 1.7% to 2.8% in
2021. In 2022, the personal consumption expenditures index is expected
to slow to 2%. According to the IMF, the US GDP will expand by 7%, which
will be the fastest growth since 1984. At the same time, the
authoritative organization believes that the Fed will have to raise the
federal funds rate at the end of 2022 or the beginning of 2023 due to
the increased risks of uncontrolled inflation rise. It seems that not
everyone is as convinced of the temporary nature of high PCE values ​​as
the Fed. And this seems reasonable.

It is very difficult to manage inflation expectations, especially if you
don’t know [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) do it. The central bank does not want to intensify the
concerns about high inflation, as the expectations can come true. The
longer the personal consumption expenditures index stays above the
target, the stronger these concerns will be. If so, the Fed is forced to
discuss the QE tapering and rate hikes.

### Dynamics of US inflation expectations



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President Patrick Harker says he is
ready for the U.S. central bank to begin slowing the pace of its
$120-billion asset-buying stimulus this year. He would like to see it
happen sooner rather than later.  The sooner the Fed ends the QE, the
closer the date of the first federal funds rate hike. And the likelihood
that this will happen in 2022 looks quite high. Therefore, the
[EURUSD][2] uptrend seems to have broken down.

Thus, the Fed began to show concern that inflationary expectations,
growing by leaps and bounds, would come true. Besides, Fed’s dual
mandate means that the central bank will raise the interest rates
provided there is full employment. June jobs report could become a
reason to start monetary tightening.

### [EURUSD][2] trading plan for today

Of course, the fact that factual data were lower than the projections
over the past two months limits the abilities of [EURUSD][2] bears.
Moreover, there is a concern that the rule “buy the [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/), sell the
facts” will work out. Still, if non-farm payrolls grow by more than
700,000 expected by Reuters, the euro will continue falling to at least
$1.177





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true