+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-27"
description = "Being in time is what matters."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Being in time is what matters."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-08-27

2021-08-27

Fed makes [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/). Review as of 27.08.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Being in time is what matters

## Historical decisions to be made at Jackson Hole

Feed a dog for three days, and it is grateful for three years. Feed a
man for three years, and he will forget you in three days. The financial
world is on the threshold of a remarkable event. Central banks are
planning to normalize monetary policies despite Delta's spread across
the planet. Their generosity impressed markets in 2020, but QE is doing
more harm than good to economies these days. Investors will forget about
cheap liquidity flows from the Fed shortly as they did after the
2008-2009 crisis. When you do good, it's taken as granted. When you
don't, you are hated.

Everything should be done in time. If the Fed delays monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)
normalization, there's a higher risk of double-digit inflation. If it
starts to withdraw QE aggressively, the economy will suffocate. Jerome
Powell and his colleagues need to find the golden mean, and they need it
right now. It might be late tomorrow.

Whatever they may say, the Fed is still the pack leader, and other
central banks continue following it. In August, all they ever talk about
is the Reserve Bank of New Zealand scared of the Delta variant, but
that's not probably the problem. Adrian Orr decided to let the Fed take
the lead. True, some regulators have already started raising rates, but
wouldn't it be wise to take a look at the leader when you're a G10
currency issuer?

Stakes are high at Jackson Hole: central banks' transition to monetary
[policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) normalization, their attitude to COVID-19, a belief in a global
economic recovery despite the pandemic. The markets have been sure the
regulators aren't afraid of the coronavirus until lately. Then, the RBNZ
canceled a cash rate hike. Next, Dallas Federal Reserve Bank President
Robert Kaplan said he was ready to revise his opinion concerning a QE
taper if the Delta variant raged further. Even the virtual format of the
meeting at Jackson Hole speaks loud and clear. Mister, would you please
put on your mask and not scare people?

Admitting one's faults isn't enough. One needs to blame others for them!
Ex-US President Donald Trump was the best at that. And I wonder whom the
RBNZ and Robert Kaplan will blame for having dropped the kiwi and the US
dollar? The former got into a pretty mess, and the latter almost got
there. Jerome Powell will hardly want to repeat the experience on the
eve of his re-appointment as the Fed chair.

> \-- What's the difference between prayers in church and on the trading
floor?

>

> \-- They are more sincere in the latter case.

Traders can only pray, looking at the dollar hovering on the eve of the
Jackson Hole meeting. We all know a trend follows consolidation. God
knows in which direction the [EURUSD][1] will go after Jerome Powell's
address. And we won't have to wait for long.







## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the authorâ€™s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true