+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-31"
description = "EUR/USD forecast for September 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EUR/USD forecast for September 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 31, 2020

August 31, 2020

Forex in September: Nothing can stop Europe!Dmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental US dollar forecast for September

### European currencies are usually strong in early autumn

Accidents happen to anyone! After a few successful months, the adepts of
the statistical analysis with a fundamental component have become sure
that they have an always-winning strategy. However, the market is
unpredictable, every year is different, and it is not reasonable to make
Forex trades based solely on the seasonal factor. The sell trades on the
[AUD/JPY][1] and [NZD/JPY][2] didn’t yield profits in August, as there
was not a necessary condition for entering shorts, the US-China trade
war wasn’t escalated. As for the [GBP/CHF][3] sell positions, the pounds
went up only in the last week of summer. I do not mean that statistics
is useless; I only want to stress that the local failures are also the
experience. There no wins without losses. Both in trading and in life.

September is the time when European currencies are the winners. In
1975-2019, the best-performing currencies of September were the Swedish
krona, the Norwegian krone, and the Swiss franc. These currencies grew
against the US dollar in 28 cases out of 45. The euro was also strong;
it closed 27 months in the green. The commodity currencies were usually
among the Forex outsiders. It suggests that the commodity market can
again go down. It is a likely scenario if there is the second pandemic
wave.

### Rise-and-fall periods

![LiteForex: EUR/USD forecast for September 2020][4]

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex analysis_

Based on averages and medians, the leaders are the Scandinavian
currencies, the Swiss franc, and the euro. They didn’t crash even when
many G10 currencies were more than 10% down versus the USD in September
2011. However, everything can happen in Forex. Remarkably, in 2009-2010,
at the final stage of the previous global economic crisis, the greenback
was rather weak in early autumn.

### Averages and Medians

![LiteForex: EUR/USD forecast for September 2020][5]

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex analysis_

On average, in good periods, the franc grew by 3.2%, the Norwegian krone
was 2.9% up, and the Swedish krona rose by 2.6%. The drops of the AUD
and the NZD were rather deep (3.9%)

### Dynamics of currency rates during rise-and-fall periods

![LiteForex: EUR/USD forecast for September 2020][6]

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex analysis_

I believe the US jobs report for August can determine the trends for the
dollar pairs for the entire September. The weak jobs data will fuel the
idea of the growth gap between the euro area and the US. In this case,
the [EUR/USD][7] will go up, and the [USD/CHF][8], [USD/NOK][9], and
[USD/SEK][10] should go down. Otherwise, an increase in US employment
will return the idea of the V-shaped recovery of the US GDP, which will
support the greenback. The euro bulls could be discouraged by the ECB if
it follows the Fed’s path and targets the average inflation instead of
nominal at its meeting on September 10. After all, I do not think the
[EUR/USD][7] drawdown will be deep.

As for the commodity currencies, I yet won’t recommend selling the
[AUD/USD][11] and the [NZD/USD][12], as China’s economy is outperforming
the other world’s economies. Traders are likely to buy these pairs in
case the prices drop. If the oil prices go down, the [USD/CAD][13] will
also roll down. However, [Brent][14] and [WTI][15] are still steadily
rising in price.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][16]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][17] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Forex in September: Nothing can stop Europe!][18]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDJPY
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NZDJPY
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPCHF
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/stat1-31-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=9bbca324f198ebcd424af5eca54372fe
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/stat2-31-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=6d6b29da17a415654cc18fafa8c7d9e2
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/stat3-31-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=71edffd000bb3c44180b573f117edd2b
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   8. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCHF&returnUrl=true
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDNOK
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDSEK
   11. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD
   12. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NZDUSD&returnUrl=true
   13. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCAD&returnUrl=true
   14. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=UKBrent_n&returnUrl=true
   15. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USCrude_n&returnUrl=true
   16. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forex-in-september-nothing-can-stop-europe&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   17. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forex-in-september-nothing-can-stop-europe&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-forex-31-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=ae7804235da6eb382f84b8c204d6ef73