+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-31"
description = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 31, 2020

August 31, 2020

Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysisRoman Onegin

## Forecast for BTCUSD, LTCUSD, ETHUSD, EOSUSD, XRPUSD pairs

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[BTCUSD][1]**

###  **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave
analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][2]**

Like in the previous trading weeks, the BTCUSD market continues forming
the corrective wave 4 as a bearish double zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]. There is
now unfolding the bullish linking wave [X] as a double combination. The
sub-waves (W)-(X) have completed, and the (Y) zigzag is yet developing.
Let us see the chart structure in more detail on the eight-hour
timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][3]

Wave (Y) is composed of the sub-waves A-B-C. The market is now forming
the upward impulse wave A that is composed of five sub-waves
[1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5]. The first four sub-waves of the A wave have
finished. There is now forming the final wave [5]. Wave [5] is unfolding
as a simple five-wave impulse. The corrective wave (4) has finished as a
skewed triangle. The price has resumed rising in wave (5). Presumably,
the entire impulse wave A should complete at a level of 12600. Next, the
Bitcoin price should turn down and start declining in the new downtrend.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[ETHUSD][4]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][5]**

The ETHUSD market is forming the downward triple zigzag. The chart
displays the structure of the linking wave [X] that is developing as a
double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y). The zigzag-shaped waves (W) and (X) have
completed. The market is now rising in zigzag (Y). Let us explore the
structure of the (Y) wave on the eight-hour timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][6]

Wave (Y) is composed of three sub-waves A-B-C. Impulse wave A and
corrective wave B have completed. The bullish impulse C is now
developing. It is composed of the sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5]. The
corrective down wave [4] has completed, and the price is now rising in
the initial element of the final wave [5]. Presumably, the market should
be running up to a level of 500.00.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[LTCUSD][7]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][8]**

The LTCUSD market is forming the global corrective wave B as a triple
zigzag. The B wave started in 2018. At the time of writing, there is
forming the down wave [Z] that should conclude this triple zigzag of a
higher degree. There is now developing the middle part of the [Z] wave.
Let's study the most recent chart section in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][9]

The eight-hour LTCUSD price chart shows the bullish corrective wave (B)
developing. It is forming as a standard zigzag and consists of pf three
sub-waves A-B-C. The sideways correction B finished as a triple three.
Next, the market has started running up in the impulse wave C. The first
four sub-waves should have completed within the C impulse. So, the
market should be rising in wave [5] to a level of 83.00.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[EOSUSD][10]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][11]**

The EOSUSD market continues forming the global corrective wave B that
started more than two years ago. It is unfolding as a triple zigzag with
the second linking wave [X] developing inside. The [X] wave is a simple
zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). The price can be rising in this pattern to a level
of 4.17. Level 4.1 is a support level of the channel drawn across the
points (B) and (C). Let us see the structure of the bullish impulse (C)
in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][12]

The impulse wave (C) is composed of the sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. The first
four legs of this pattern must have completed. After the bearish
corrective wave 4 finished as a simple zigzag [a]-[b]-[c], the final
upward wave [5] has started forming. As this wave has just begun, the
EOSUSD market should be rising to the indicated level.

* * *

###  **Wave analysis for[XRPUSD][13]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][14]**

Like other major cryptocurrencies, the XRPUSD market is forming the
triple zigzag of a higher degree. Within this triple zigzag, there is
forming the bullish linking wave [X] as a simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). The
final impulse wave (C) is about to finish soon. It should complete at a
level of 0.348, which is the support level. Let us see the chart
structure in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][15]

The first four legs of the impulse wave (C), the sub-waves 1-2-3-4, have
completed. The corrective wave 4 has recently completed as a simple
zigzag [a]-[b]-[c]. The market is now rising in the initial phase of the
final wave 5 towards level 0.348.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][16]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][17] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysis][18]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/31-08-2020X/BTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=b9686a52f031fc4cde92bdefc4f047ed
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/31-08-2020X/BTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=b630ee9f2ff13631805a1ac9b8cda8d6
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/31-08-2020X/ETHUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=b1058ff9ed00a56f1a685b9c51bac87b
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/31-08-2020X/ETHUSDH8.png?w=30&s=62a5dad18c8cf893dcb41a6a24d28bcd
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/31-08-2020X/LTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=7ff47603384a26b53a87e0c90219b740
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/31-08-2020X/LTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=cf2bcef8b4be2e371bec34d74caa6024
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/31-08-2020X/EOSUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=b4c4cf657aea445659cb89378cf8877f
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/31-08-2020X/EOSUSDH8.png?w=30&s=b9a8554349e923dc4f4078845047deed
   13. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/31-08-2020X/XRPUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=8da50a283860d95750a40187cdb07171
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/31-08-2020X/XRPUSDH8.png?w=30&s=1ebe48f8eaebc33ba5364f20bdebb59f
   16. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-08-31&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   17. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-08-31&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/1-elliott-waves-weekly-forecast-for-[BTC](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/who-is-the-creator-of-bitcoin/)usd-ethusd-ltcusd-eosusd-xrpusd_1000x545.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1480cfce2406c81b57be8a77076342f1