+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-01"
description = "Forecast for euro price for 1 June 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for euro price for 1 June 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-01

2021-06-01

Euro misses tourism. Forecast as of 01.06.2021Dmitri Demidenko

It's always easier to deal with underestimation than overestimation.
Spain and other countries in South Europe may need less time to get back
to pre-pandemic levels as demand for tourist services is growing. Isn't
it a good reason to buy the [EURUSD][1]? Let’s check it out and make a
trading plan.

## Quarterly fundamental forecast for euro

Even though the Executive Board teems with doves, it will become harder
for the ECB to avoid talks about tapering the emergency bond-buying
program amid rising inflation. Germany's boost of consumer prices from
2.1% to 2.4% in May will allow hawks to start discussions about scaling
back financial support, and also because the Bundesbank thinks the CPI
may go up to 4% this year. A rumored split within the Executive Board
inspired the EURUSD bulls to start a new attack ahead of the meeting on
10 June.

The ECB is very likely to echo the Fed's opinion, saying that the
inflation boost is temporary. Still, the heterogeneity of the eurozone's
economy offers more chances to discuss PEPP's further destiny. The more
so as a CPI boost was registered in Spain and Italy as well. In Germany,
the main factor in CPI growth was a 7% increase in tourist service
prices, which will continue growing after the lockdown is gradually
lifted as the Germans are missing travel.

### Inflation rates in Germany, Italy, and France



 _Source: Bloomberg._

Interestingly, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD), which upgraded a forecast for global GDP growth from
5.6% to 5.8% in 2021 and from 4% to 4.4% in 2022, believes that tourism-
dependent economies will be the slowest to return to pre-pandemic
levels. According to the OECD, to do that, the US will need 18 months
and Spain -- nearly three years. I think the OECD underestimates the
psychological factor. People got so thirsty for traveling that they are
ready to spend no matter how much money. So, the prices of German tour
operators' services accelerate German inflation.

If that's true, southern European economies will rise faster than
expected, and that's a significant advantage of the [EURUSD][1] bulls.
It's always easier to deal with underestimation than overestimation.
Even more so because the OECD predicts the eurozone's GDP will grow
faster (+4.4%) than its US peer (+3.6%) in 2022. A downgrade from 4% for
the latter was another factor in the [EURUSD][1]'s growth at the end of
spring.

### Change in OECD’s forecasts



 _Source: Bloomberg._

The euro closed in the green zone against the USD for two months in a
row, and it's hard to imagine what may reverse the uptrend in the
euro/dollar. For that to happen, bond yields have to grow faster than in
March and exceed the pace of European rates growth, and US stock indexes
have to drop. Such a scenario doesn't look plausible amid the global
economy's fast recovery and the Fed's passive contemplation.

### Quarterly trading plan for the [EURUSD][1]

Strong US labor market statistics may delay the [EURUSD][1]'s reaching
the previous [targets at 1.24 and 1.255][2], but not cancel them. Even
if the Fed starts QE taper talks and Jerome Powell makes a statement at
Jackson Hole, the Central bank won't leave the bond market. In such
circumstances, buying the euro on pullbacks looks reasonable.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. lite.forex/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-is-scared-by-printing-press-forecast-as-of-26052021/