+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-07"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 07.09.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 07.09.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

September 7, 2020

September 7, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 07.09.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil price is being corrected down in the middle-term. The price is
approaching the trend key support [37.34 – 36.72]. When the support zone
is tested, I recommend looking for a buy pattern and buy with the target
at the High of August + Target Zone 6 [49.17 — 48.42].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 07.09.2020][1]

The short-term trend turned down last Friday. The price broke out
Intermediary Zone [40.44 – 40.13], and the US session consolidated the
price below. The target is now at Target Zone [37.34 – 36.72].

Enter shot trades in the zone of [41.85 - 40.13]. Expect the zone test
and look for a sell pattern in the zone.

It will be relevant to buy oil when bulls break out the trend key
resistance. The resistance is in the zone of [41.85 — 41.54].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 07.09.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:**

Sell in the zone of [41.85 - 40.13]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [37.34 -
36.72]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold price is breaking the triangle downside. If the price consolidates
below the support level, the market is likely to go down, break out
Target Zone [1922.4 - 1913.1], and move towards Target Zone 2 [1829.4 —
1820.1].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 07.09.2020][4]

The short-term gold trend turned down last week. For this week, the
downside target is Target Zone [1899.4 – 1890.1]. Enter sell trades
according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1941.9 - 1939.6], and in
Intermediary Zone [1967.5 - 1962.8]. One can fix a part of profits at
the breakthrough of the local low.

It will be relevant to buy gold when bulls break out Intermediary Zone
and consolidate at the US session above. This scenario is not yet
relevant.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 07.09.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1941.9 - 1939.6]. TakeProfit: 1917.1, Target Zone [1899.4 - 1890.1]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1967.5 - 1962.8]. TakeProfit: 1917.1, Target Zone [1899.4 - 1890.1]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

Last week, the price broke through the high of August and was corrected
down to the trend key support zone. The price is now trading close to
the support, so, we continue looking for a buy pattern. If there is a
pattern in the chart, we shall enter purchases with the target at the
high of September + Target Zone 5 [1.2096 — 1.2078].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 07.09.2020][7]

Let us switch to a shorter timeframe and analyze the short-term trend.
It is clear from the chart that the short-term trend is down. Last week,
traders tried to break out Target Zone [1.1811 – 1.1791], but they
failed.

Buyers are testing the intraday resistance Additional Zone [1.1836 –
1.1831]. I suggest entering sell trades in this zone according to the
pattern, the target will be the low of last week.

If the resistance AZ is broken out, the price will be corrected up to
the border of the downtrend, Intermediary Zone [1.1891 – 1.1881]. If so,
we shall enter sell trades in the zone with the same targets as
indicated above.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 07.09.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1836 - 1.1831]. TakeProfit: 1.1782. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1891 - 1.1881]. TakeProfit: 1.1782. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 07.09.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_070920_1.png?w=30&s=fd07a7a41f65c062b56460201a9366df
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_070920_2.png?w=30&s=ad1de3ccf9eed56ecdfc510901b7059d
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_070920_1.png?w=30&s=4140b37bd48b54e1b32302bd6f94bf9f
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_070920_2.png?w=30&s=e202c29a1283641e825b9ba38442a1a0
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_070920_1.png?w=30&s=7027351ec3c656881f66e40096861ad3
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_070920_2.png?w=30&s=0a131ff00dc53f5d0c3efff0d527ed29
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-07092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-07092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_150.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=c29ee5a8220e51b3e2b9507200b1a83f