+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-07"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 07.09.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 07.09.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

September 7, 2020

September 7, 2020

EUR/USD forecast: Euro bears go aheadDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental Euro forecast for today

### EUR/USD is rolling down, and Forex traders expect an apocalypse

When the FOMC officials led by Jerome Powell universally state that the
US economy won’t rebound without a fresh stimulus, it sounds like an
appeal to Congress, “we have done our job, now, it is your turn!” The
shift to the average inflation targeting suggests that the Fed focuses
on full employment more than consumer prices. However, an improvement in
the US jobs market reduces the chance of the compromise between the
Republicans and the Democrats on additional assistance to the
unemployed. A vicious circle, which is difficult to break.

The August report was positive. The US unemployment rate dropped from
10.2% to 8.4%, and nonfarm payrolls data were better than the forecasts.
Yes, the growth of employment is slowing down, but it is natural. The
increase in activity after the reopening of the economy is fading away.
The recession is deep; there are 11.5 million fewer jobs than in
February. However, the US economy is recovering. That is why the US
dollar has performed the best weekly rise since June.

The US strong domestic data are not the only reason for the [EUR/USD][1]
correction. Investors wonder if the ECB will continue to press the euro
down. If Christine Lagarde speaks about the harm of the strong euro at
the Governing Council’s meeting, the market will expect the boost of the
QE and interest rate cut. Investors now expect the ECB rate to drop by
ten basis points by September 2021. The dovish tone of the European
Central Bank could send European bond yield down, and so, the euro
should weaken.

### Dynamics of EONIA and German bond yield

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 07.09.2020][2]

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The ECB September meeting will be a test for Christine Lagarde. The
hawks are likely to criticize the idea of expanding the stimulus
package. However, if the ECB president says nothing about the exchange
rates at the press conference following the meeting of the Governing
Council, the [EUR/USD][1] buyers will go ahead. The words should be
chosen very carefully because excessive pressure can only have a short-
term effect, and then, the euro rally will continue.

The euro correction encourages the bears to go ahead. They suggest a
grim outlook for the single European currency. For example, the EU
governments may not ratify the €750 billion joint bond plan.
Furthermore, some experts project a no-deal Brexit, the second pandemic
wave in Europe, and even Donald Trump’s re-election, followed by the
escalation of the US-EU trade war. The chance of the euro-area break is
close to zero now, but it can rise. In this case, the bond yield gap
will broaden, and the euro will weaken.

### Dynamics of Italy-Germany 10-year yield gap

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 07.09.2020][3]

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Of course, everything can happen in Forex. However, I believe the
[EUR/USD][1] should resume the uptrend after the correction. The market
currently expects the ECB to sound dovish, which suggests the euro
should go down below $1.18.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![EUR/USD forecast: Euro bears go ahead][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/eonia-bonds-germany-07-09-20.jpg?w=30&s=b4f12f79f88b2a0428eb88d9d37ed76f
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/bonds-italy-germany-07-09-20.jpg?w=30&s=7dd9630f9bbb10abe8d3988cb027c32f
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-euro-bears-go-ahead&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-euro-bears-go-ahead&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-07-09-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=10112e2d5563034b8a0972ab7e4003cc