+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-07"
description = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=10.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

September 7, 2020

September 7, 2020

Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysisRoman Onegin

## Forecast for BTCUSD, LTCUSD, ETHUSD, EOSUSD, XRPUSD pairs

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[BTCUSD][1]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][2]**

Like in the previous trading weeks, the BTCUSD is forming the global
corrective wave 4 as a double zigzag. Wave [W] completed as a simple
zigzag. The price is now rising in the linking wave [X], which is also
likely to end as a double zigzag. The sub-waves (W) and (X) have
finished, wave (Y) is now developing. Let us study the chart in more
detail in the shorter timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][3]

Within wave (Y), the bullish impulse wave (A), composed of five sub-
waves, has completed. The corrective wave B is currently unfolding as a
double zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]. The bearish zigzag-shaped [W] should soon
finish. The Bitcoin market could reverse at a level of 9700, and linking
wave [X] should start. An approximate trajectory of the Bitcoin future
price movement is outlined in the chart.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[ETHUSD][4]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][5]**

The Ethereum market is forming a triple combination, composed of the
sub-waves (W)-(X)-(Y)-(X)-(Z). The first three parts of this pattern
have completed. The initial part of the linking wave [X] is now
unfolding as a simple zigzag A-B-C. It is likely to end at a level
around 162.14, which is the lower border of the channel, drawn across
the tops of waves (W), (X), and (Y). Let us see the structure of the
initial part of the wave (X).

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][6]

After wave (Y) finished as a simple zigzag, the market has turned down
and started declining. The impulse wave A is now forming within the
linking wave (X). It should complete soon. Next, the price should rise a
little in correction B. When the correction B finishes, the market
should resume declining in the impulse wave C. An approximate trajectory
of the future market trend is outlined in the chart.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[LTCUSD][7]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][8]**

The LTCUSD continues following the global corrective wave B as a triple
zigzag. The chart displays the final leg of this pattern. Wave [Z] is
now developing as a simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C), where the impulse wave
(A) and the corrective wave (B) have completed. Impulse (C) is still
developing. Let us see the chart structure in more detail in the eight-
hour timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][9]

After the upward corrective wave (B), composed of three sub-waves A-B-C,
finished, the market has started declining in the final impulse wave
(C). The first two legs of the (C) impulse must have ended. Therefore,
the market should be moving in the sub-waves 3-4-5 towards a level of
25.00, as it is outlined in the chart. This level is the previous low
made by the impulse wave (A).

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[EOSUSD][10]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][11]**

The EOSUSD market is forming the global downward correction B that is
made of five major sub-waves, it is unfolding as a triple zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The second linking wave [X] has recently completed
as a simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). The market should be moving in the first
element of the [Z] wave. Let us explore wave [Z] in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][12]

Wave [Z] is likely to end as a simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). The down
impulse wave (A) must have completed. The bullish correction (B) is
currently unfolding. The (B) wave could complete as a simple zigzag.
When it finishes, the market will resume declining in the (C) impulse
towards a level of 1.40. This level is the previous low made by wave
[Y]. This level is highly likely to be reached by the price.

* * *

###  **Wave analysis for[XRPUSD][13]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][14]**

The XRPUSD market is forming a global downtrend. There is forming the
bearish triple zigzag, with the first four legs completed inside. There
is now unfolding the last motive wave [Z]. The [Z] wave should complete
as a simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C) at a level of around 0.110, as it is
outlined in the chart. This level is the low made by wave [Y]. Let us
study the [Z] wave in more detail in the H8 timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][15]

Within wave [Z], there is developing the down impulse wave (A) that is
composed of five sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. The first two legs have completed
withing the (A) impulse. Wave 3 is now developing. In the next few
weeks, the Ripple price should continue declining in the sub-waves
3-4-5. Next, the market could start running up in a short corrective
wave (B). An approximate trajectory of the Ripple future price trend is
outlined in the chart.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][16]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][17] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysis][18]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/07-09-2020X/BTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=5d2f9a1a7e2cf8093b9612fbef3d6b2f
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/07-09-2020X/BTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=046d7dd74087ef08c90b8b37fdcaf5c0
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/07-09-2020X/ETHUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=79cf6b392a9667eb5fd75afc791b914c
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/07-09-2020X/ETHUSDH8.png?w=30&s=6147495c5f9a3152967e760d82a08111
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/07-09-2020X/LTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=b9667c32728806c921939767be562f4e
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/07-09-2020X/LTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=b352a35d3f9d12609d840d64f9ab134c
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/07-09-2020X/EOSUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=a0eeb99882875f889ec0fd109ed873ba
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/07-09-2020X/EOSUSDH8.png?w=30&s=46214b49fab9fa3a72df9afd499dac4c
   13. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/07-09-2020X/XRPUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=53dcbcee392d132debd3c236056ec88b
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/07-09-2020X/XRPUSDH8.png?w=30&s=2a4bdc7ca2bcdbf9e6a08d9267a4f844
   16. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-09-07&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   17. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-09-07&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/1-elliott-waves-weekly-forecast-for-[BTC](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/who-is-the-creator-of-bitcoin/)usd-ethusd-ltcusd-eosusd-xrpusd_1000x545.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1480cfce2406c81b57be8a77076342f1