+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-28"
description = "Greenback gets ready for presidential election"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Greenback gets ready for presidential election"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 28, 2020

August 28, 2020

Trojan horse for the dollarDmitri Demidenko

### Will America still be America if Joe Biden wins?

Many countries’ problem is that the people who pass bills had better
take pills. The USA is no exception. The Republicans and the Democrats’
collision concerning the fiscal stimulus volume is just battle
reconnaissance ahead of a full-scale battle that will decide who will
get the president’s chair.  Will it be Trump, 74 y/o, or Joe Biden, 77
y/o? If you believe that wisdom comes with aging, don’t doubt in the
USA’s bright future. But what if age comes alone?

![LiteForex: Greenback gets ready for presidential election][1]

You have to hustle if you want to survive. Trump started his re-election
campaign by stating that his employment support programs saved 51
million jobs. The Reuters experts say the actual number is very far from
Trump’s statement. It’s 14 million at best and 1 million at worst.
According to the U.S. Treasury Department and Small Business
Administration, 51 million is the total number of workers reported
approved for a loan. Trump must have got it all wrong again, but the
guilt lies with his Administration members who cooked that dish.

> \- Watson, how did you like that hound of the Baskervilles?

>

> \- I haven’t tried it, Holmes.

>

> \- But Mrs. Hudson says you have.

>

> \- Why do you trust her and not me?

>

> \- Because she’s the one who cooks.

![LiteForex: Greenback gets ready for presidential election][2]

Given Trump’s talent for finding the guilty, he will easily find a self-
excuse, even more so because the enemy is near. It used to be Jerome
Powell, who didn’t want to soften monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), and China, which gave
baloney to the US former presidents. Now the enemy is Joe Biden.
According to Vice President Mike Pence, Biden’s victory will be the end
of America.

  The democrat is just a Trojan horse for the radical left-wingers. It’s
not about what will happen to the USA after 4th November and whether it
will become more conservative or liberal, more democratic, or
republican. It’s about America remaining America. Light is faster than
sound. That’s why some people look bright at first glance until they
start speaking.

![LiteForex: Greenback gets ready for presidential election][3]

My husband told me I wouldn’t drive until I learned to bury
motorcyclists. As the country’s president, Trump failed to complete many
things. He didn’t push GDP to 3%, didn’t cut the trade balance deficit,
didn’t save thousands of Americans from the pandemic, and didn’t bring
China-the-Thief to its knees. At the same time, we need to admit those
were hard times and strong adversaries. Trump’s presidency was marked by
[S&P 500][4]’s record highs and the USD index’s long rally, which
COVID-19 and the 4th November election will most likely finish. What is
good for Trump is good for the dollar. We have already got used to it.
The president’s falling rating harms [EUR/USD][5] bears. But the war
isn’t lost yet, is it?

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Trojan horse for the dollar][8]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/trump-biden-28-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=e0d95abefb088d86f6e9b08c5a0a90b7
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/holmes-watson-28-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=b06da1638bd8d49deb04453315e10167
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/horse-28-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=b450a3b6ec80c2e63ae35c99e438f2c7
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=trojan-horse-for-the-dollar&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=trojan-horse-for-the-dollar&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/liteforex-blog-dollar-28-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=18279e807ba1b7a8c9f463b5268ae8d2