+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-30"
description = "An overview of Elliott wave patterns based on Glenn Neely’s NeoWave theory, triangles."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "An overview of Elliott wave patterns based on Glenn Neely’s NeoWave theory, triangles."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

April 30, 2020

April 30, 2020

NeoWave. Part 15. Basic and advanced rules of logic to analyze
triangles.Mikhail Hypov

## NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Triangle patterns. Basic and advanced
rules of logic.

Dear friends!

In the [previous training article][1], I covered triangle patterns,
their variations, and basic construction rules.

If you haven’t read the previous articles in the NeoWave series, I
recommend covering all the articles devoted to the NeoWave theory based
on Glenn Neely’s book Mastering Elliott Wave, starting from the first
one:

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][2].

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels. ][3]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][5]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][6]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][10].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][11].

[NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][12]

[NeoWave. Part 12. Impulsions and the rules to analyze impulse wave
patterns. ][13]

[NeoWave. Part 13. Corrections. Rules to identify a correction.][14]

[NeoWave. Part 14. Triangles. Rules to identify triangles. ][1]

In this educational post, I will explain the formal (basic) and advanced
rules of logic.

### Basic rules of logic to confirm a triangle formation

Remember, the basic rules are applied to confirm the formation type.

We shall confirm the authenticity of a contracting triangle by analyzing
the market action after the pattern completion.

### Stage 1

First, draw a trendline through the beginning of wave B and the end of
wave D. The first wave, immediately after the completion of the
triangle, must break the B-D trendline in the same amount of time (or
less) as that consumed by wave E.

### Stage 2

The thrust after wave E of a triangle should exceed the highest or
lowest price level (depending on the direction of the thrust) achieved
during the triangle. Another important criterion to confirm the
formation of a contracting triangle states that the triangle's thrust
must terminate in a time frame which is less than 50% of that taken by
the Triangle (added to the end of wave E).

### Formal rules of logic to confirm the formation of expanding
triangles

To confirm the authenticity of an expanding triangle, you should apply
the opposite requirements. In other words, after the E-wave of an
expanding triangle, the market should either not retrace the E-wave
completely breaking the B-D trendline, or __it will take more time to
completely retrace wave E than it took to form.

Let us study the example of how a contracting non-limiting triangle
(analyzed in the previous article) is confirmed.

![LiteForex: An overview of Elliott wave patterns based on Glenn Neely’s
NeoWave theory, triangles.][15]

First, we draw the B-D trendline. The first wave immediately after the
pattern’s completion, should break the B-D trendline in the amount of
time that is no longer than that consumed by wave E. As you see, the
blue area, which marks the E-wave’s price territory, is smaller than the
red area, which highlights the period when the post-triangular wave is
forming and breaks the B-D trendline. Therefore, the first stage of the
pattern confirmation is completed.

![LiteForex: An overview of Elliott wave patterns based on Glenn Neely’s
NeoWave theory, triangles.][16]

Now, let us look at the thrust after the E-wave. It makes a new high
(the blue dot in the chart) that exceeds the highest level (the pink
line in the chart) achieved during the formation of the triangle.
Therefore, the second stage also confirms the triangle. Next, I will
cover the advanced rules of logic applied to triangles, exceptions to
the rules, as well as the principles of identification of price patterns
composed of monowaves.

### Advanced rules of logic for a contracting triangle

Remember, the advanced rules of logic are used to analyses the market
action after the pattern completed.

A thrust always follows a contracting triangle, which depends on the
pattern’s variation. The thrust out of a contracting triangle should
always exceed the highest or lowest price reached during the formation
of the triangle unless it moves against the direction of wave B.

A contracting triangle may be the B-wave or the last phase in a
correction, or it may be the fourth wave in an impulse. Besides,
triangles create important support/resistance levels. Namely, when the
triangle is finished, its apex point will be a significant support to
any decline or resistance to any rise. However, the “horizontal”
influence of the triangle’s apex point will usually hold for only two or
three violations. If the market has moved up or down through the price
level occupied by the apex point more than three times, the market is
indicating that the price level has lost its significance.

### Advanced rules of logic for a contracting limiting triangle

This variation of triangles doesn’t depend on the previous pattern,
unlike most corrections. Post-triangular action in a limiting
****triangle is determined by the size of the widest segment of the
triangle and the placement of the triangle’s apex point. Remember, the
apex point is created by the converging trendlines which form the
triangle. The triangle being analyzed is limiting, the market action
after the thrust usually returns to the breakout point and often exceeds
it.

Depending on the slope of the trendlines which create the Triangle, the
thrust could be between 75% and 261.8% of the widest segment of the
triangle. The time period of the thrust is generally equal to that it
took the market to cover the distance from the end of the E-wave to the
apex point. Differently put, the thrust should terminate almost exactly
into the time period __where the converging trendlines crossed.

If the triangle is a B-wave of a correction or the 4th wave in an
impulse, but the post thrust action has not returned to the breakout
point or beyond and the market action has exceeded the original thrust's
highest or lowest price level, there must be a terminal pattern forming.

There also can be forming the x-wave if the triangle is the B-wave of a
larger formation. The x-wave is most likely to be forming when the post-
thrust action fails to break the beginning of the triangle after it
reaches the time period of the triangle’s apex.

### Advanced rules of logic for a horizontal, contracting limiting
triangle

The thrust out of such a triangle usually falls in the range of 75% and
125% of the widest segment in the triangle.

### Advanced rules for an irregular contracting limiting triangle

If the B-wave in the pattern exceeds the end of wave A (in both
directions), the thrust out of this triangle may reach 161.8% of its
widest segment.

### Advanced rules of logic for a running contracting limiting triangle

This is the most powerful variation of triangles. The thrust out of the
triangle may reach 261.8% of the widest segment in the triangle.
Besides, if the triangle is drifting upward, the trend is strong, it is
drifting downward, the trend is weak.

### Advanced rules of logic for contracting non-limiting triangles

A non-limiting triangle doesn’t impose any specific rules for post-
triangular market action. So, the only way to predict further market
action is to analyze the action preceding the correction. If a
correction with a triangle, it means the correction must be complex,
that is a double or triple pattern. If it is followed by an impulse, the
impulse should be at least the same length of the previous impulse. The
non-limiting thrust should not terminate during the time period occupied
by the apex point.

![LiteForex: An overview of Elliott wave patterns based on Glenn Neely’s
NeoWave theory, triangles.][17]

The above chart displays the contracting non-limiting triangle. Let us
see how the advanced rules of logic work, using it as an example. The
thrust of the non-limiting triangle should be longer than the widest
segment in a triangle. The wave, following the E-wave, is a little more
than 100% of wave A, which is the widest in the triangle being studied.
Besides, in accordance with the rules of logic, the thrust doesn’t
terminate within the price period occupied by the apex point.

### Advanced rules of logic for expanding triangle

The expanding triangles usually imply the opposite attributes of the
contracting triangles. The thrust is usually less than the widest leg of
a triangle. When the pattern takes place in the B-wave position, there
must be a c-wave failure. If an expanding triangle completes a larger
pattern, it is unlikely that the next move will completely retrace the
E-wave of the triangle. If it does, the retracement should take more
time than that consumed by the E-wave.

### Advanced rules of logic for an expanding limiting triangle

The only implication __that is reliable about this pattern is it should
not be completely retraced by the following wave.

### Advanced rules of logic for an expanding non-limiting triangle

These triangles most commonly serve as the first or last phase of a
complex Corrective pattern, or as an x-wave. If it is the first segment
of a complex correction, it should not be completely retraced by the
next wave. If it is the last phase of a complex correction, then it
should be completely retraced by the next move.

![LiteForex: An overview of Elliott wave patterns based on Glenn Neely’s
NeoWave theory, triangles.][18]

Let analyze the expanding triangle, I studied in the previous article.
As you see, the wave following the E-wave doesn’t completely retrace the
triangle. Therefore, it can be the x-wave or the first segment of a
larger complex correction. We could analyze the pattern in the inverted
order. For example, if we presume that the non-limiting triangle is the
last phase of a larger correction, its thrust likely to reach the
beginning of the triangle.

That is all for today. In the next training article, I will cover
advanced rules of logic for zigzags and identification of price patterns
with larger formations.

* * *

Take care of yourself and your money!

Subscribe and be the first to read the most up-to-date materials!

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][19]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][20] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![NeoWave. Part 15. Basic and advanced rules of logic to analyze
triangles.][21]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-14-corrections-triangles-rules-to-identify-triangles/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b/
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a/
   11. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-10-retracement-rule-6-conditions-b-c-and-d/
   12. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-11-retracement-rule-7/
   13. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-12-impulsions-and-the-rules-to-analyze-impulse-wave-patterns/
   14. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-13-corrections-rules-to-identify-a-correction/
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.29/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=03b6e1e83dd1acad730dc6863fd45793
   16. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.29/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=23312ef09345c11c702ff263369863aa
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.29/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=cadd8d19e53b5015079b8e4288f158b4
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.29/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=7911ce8f7deaedbbc48709fa299a7069
   19. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-15-basic-and-advanced-rules-of-logic-to-analyze-triangles&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   20. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-15-basic-and-advanced-rules-of-logic-to-analyze-triangles&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   21. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.29/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=dc56876f090fcb72308e9fa5b0b09c3d