+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-30"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

April 30, 2020

April 30, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.04.2020Alex Rodiоnov

## Oil buyers are trying the break out the resistance [11.67 – 10.92]
and turn the medium-term trend up

###  **USCrude – oil**

Yesterday, oil price was again trying to break through Target Zone
[11.67 – 10.92], the border of the medium-term downtrend. Today, buyers
are trying to consolidate the price above the zone. There forming a
1-2-3 pattern to buy.

I still recommend entering buy trades on oil. The target is now in
Target Zone 2 [19.17 — 18.42].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.04.2020][1]

The oil short-term trend is up. Yesterday, there was a strong buy
momentum, and the price reached the first buy target for trades entered
in Intermediary Zone [8.49 - 8.07]. The high of April 24 was broken
through. The second target to reach is Gold Zone [15.04 – 14.67].

I recommend entering purchases on the correction in either Additional
Zone [11.37 – 11.12] or the new Intermediary Zone [8.87 - 8.37].

I recommend moving the rest of buy trades entered yesterday to the
breakeven.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.04.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [11.37 - 11.12]. TakeProfit: 13.80, Gold Zone [15.04 - 14.67]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [8.87 - 8.37]. TakeProfit: 13.80, Gold Zone [15.04 - 14.67]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

In the medium-term gold price chart, there is developing the middle-term
uptrend with the upside target to test Target Zone 5 [1757.2 – 1751.2].
The price is now moving up form the strong support [1697.2 – 1691.2],
according to the buy pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.04.2020][4]

Gold short-term trend is up. The target in the trend is Target Zone
[1760.0 - 1750.0].

Buyers are now trying to break through the intraday resistance
Additional Zone [1716.7 – 1714.4]. If they succeed, the local high will
be broken through, and the price will reach TZ. In this case, one could
enter gold buy trades after the price breaks out Additional Zone.

If AZ is held, the price will be again corrected down to the trend key
support [1692.8 — 1688.2].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.04.2020][5]



 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

Hold up buy trades entered according to the pattern in Target Zone
[1663.9 - 1655.6]. TakeProfit: 1738.0, Target Zone 5 [1757.2 - 1751.2].
StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EUR/USD is being corrected up in the middle-term downtrend. The
trend key resistance is in the zone of [1.0927 - 1.0909]. Good sell
prices will be provided when the resistance is tested.

Good sell prices will also appear after the price breaks out Target Zone
2 [1.0803 – 1.0786]. In this case, the target will be in Target Zone 3
[1.0631 — 1.0614].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.04.2020][7]

The US session closed the price above Intermediary Zone [1.0827 –
1.0818] yesterday. This means that the EURUSD short-term trend reversed
up. The target for short-term buy trades is Target Zone [1.0927 –
1.0909].

The key resistance to the new uptrend is in the zone [1.0797 – 1.0788].
If the price is corrected down to this zone, I will recommend entering
purchases according to the pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.04.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

Open medium-term sell positions in Target Zone [1.0927 - 1.0909].
TakeProfit: 1.0730. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.04.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_300420_1.png?w=30&s=54b06503aa1326cca89a17b13e72f532
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_300420_2.png?w=30&s=d4bac710156d9cc0de02107032d7ab8b
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_300420_1.png?w=30&s=26beacf6578bc43f2d55e24c16c3355d
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_300420_2.png?w=30&s=1bba74f8e601ee3006f68bdf517add32
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_300420_1.png?w=30&s=91eab9b7b95aafe5f5229a4280a61659
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_300420_2.png?w=30&s=ec823d88dc8360eb6da685651b83166b
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-30042020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-30042020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/oil_142.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=a59b3b7f2ecef9a6f91db877ca96de45