+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-30"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 30.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 30.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

April 30, 2020

April 30, 2020

Dollar fooled the marketsDmitri Demidenko

## The Fed managed to hide its pessimism behind the willingness to take
active, aggressive measures

Try, try, and try again. Jerome Powell, at the press conference
following the April FOMC meeting, did his best to keep the illusion of
stability he had created. Federal Reserve Chairman noted that the
central bank will take active, aggressive measures to shield the U.S.
economy from the coronavirus, and patiently hold the interest rates
around zero until the regulator is sure that the U.S. economy is heading
for the high targets in the employment and price stability. In order to
hold the S&P 500 bears back, the central bank has abandoned its
principle of being independent of politics. The Fed’s didn’t use to call
on the Congress for an increase in the fiscal stimulus, now it does,
suggesting that the central bank needs help.

As the stock indexes have been up, the Fed seems to have reassured the
markets, despite the change in its tone. In March, Jerome Powell spoke
about a V-shaped rebound of the US economy. In April, he emphasized
several times that there is hardly any hope for a quick rebound of the
US GDP in the second half of 2020. The Fed is getting ready for a long
struggle with the pandemic. During the next year or so, there will
continue the uncertainty about the victory over the pandemic, the depth,
and length of the economic downturn, the scale of the global shocks, and
the recovery of the consumption and the domestic demand. In fact, even
China, which has almost brought the COVID-19 under control, is giving
away shopping vouchers to get people to go out and spend money again.

The downturn is deep. The US GDP lost 4.8% Q-o-Q, consumer expenditures
featured the worst drop since 1980, the business investments were the
lowest over 11 years. This looks incredible. In early March, the US
economy was operating normally, and there were no signs that the longest
economic expansion would end.

 **Dynamics of U.S. GDP**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 30.04.2020][1]

 _Source: Financial Times_

The worst is yet to come in the second quarter. According to Markit’s
economic activity data, the US GDP should decline at a 37% annual rate,
which will be the biggest drop since 1947.

In my opinion, Jerome Powell managed to clam down the markets and
distract them form the change in the Fed’s stance. The US economy is
likely to be U-shaped, so the 30% rally of the S&P 500 up form the March
lows looks too strong.

Investors now switch their attention from the Fed to the ECB. After
Fitch downgraded Italy’s credit rating, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s expect the Governing
Council to take aggressive measures. When the euro-area governments fail
to find a compromise on the fiscal stimulus, the ECB is likely to take
the responsibility. If the European Central Bank doesn’t boost the QE
pace in April, it may at least give a clue on such a step in the future.

 **Dynamics of European QE**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 30.04.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The euro [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) market doesn’t expect any strong moves, and it seems to
be right. The [EUR/USD ][3]is stuck in the trading range of 1.08-1.09.
Will Christine Lagarde make it be trending?

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar fooled the markets][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/usa-gdp-30-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=9faef02928a7737551b5a98b0efb648b
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/ecb-qe-30-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=6f1d1da1d6b2379286241eb6cba8a657
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-fooled-the-markets&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-fooled-the-markets&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-30-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=3570721ecf410058b6734998a6c54fcf