+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-19"
description = "AUD/USD forecast for19.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "AUD/USD forecast for19.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 19, 2020

May 19, 2020

Aussie is going to be the winnerDmitri Demidenko

## AUD/USD could break through the two-month highs

After it became clear that China would be the first to win the struggle
with the coronavirus, the Australian dollar has become my favorite. The
idea to buy the Aussie seemed strange amid the first recession in
Australia since the 1990s, the AUD/USD drop to the lowest low since
2002, and the QE launched by the RBA. However, as early as in [late
March][1], I saw that, if the global recession had resulted from the
pandemic, one should bet on the currencies of the countries that should
be the first to manage the pandemic. My basic strategy has been buying
the AUD from the zone of $0.59-$0.62 with the targets at [$0.675 and
$0.69][2], it perfectly worked out due to the excellent [LiteForex
trading conditions. ][3]

The [AUD/USD][4] has been up by 19% from the March lows, and the
Australian dollar is now seen as an example to follow by the currencies
of the countries hit by COVID-19. Due to China and the growth in
commodity prices, Australia’s GDP could recover quicker than the U.S.
and euro-area GDPs, which is an important reason to buy the Aussie
versus the greenback and the euro. Remember, Jerome Powell says that the
US economy will hardly recover until 2021; the ECB says the euro-area
GDP will reach the pre-crisis levels only in 2022. Against such a
background, it is natural that the speculators, who used to be bearish
on the Australian dollar, are now exiting shorts.

 **AUD speculative positions**

![LiteForex: AUD/USD forecast for19.05.2020][5]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Canberra has done a lot to help Australia’s economy recover. The
$AU130-billion fiscal stimulus, taking into account the GDP pace, looks
one of the most aggressive among the G10 countries. Besides, the RBA,
unlike the Fed, didn’t have to boost the balance sheet. Following the
Bank of Japan, Australia’s central bank adopted the yield curve control
[policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), setting the target for the yield on __ 3-year Australia
government bonds at 0.25%, which has proven its effectiveness. The
volume of bond purchases is contracting, the market has stabilized, and
they may not need to expand the monetary stimulus.

 **Dynamics of Australia’s bond yields and QE volumes**

![LiteForex: AUD/USD forecast for19.05.2020][6]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Yes, bears could point to the drop in Australia’s employment by 594,300
in April and the RBA gloomy forecasts that suggest the GDP be down by
10% in the first quarter and by 6% in the entire year 2020, however, all
countries are suffering from a downturn now. I would be surprised if any
country reported positive statistics.

However, not everything is that bright. China supports the [AUD/USD][4]
rally, but it can also send the Aussie it down. A typical example is the
suspension of the Australian pork imports and the start of an anti-
dumping barley import audit by China, which could increase import
tariffs to 80%, as China’s retaliation to Australia for its support of
the USA in the investigation of the laboratory origins of COVID-19. This
idea hasn’t been further developed, so, I expect and improvement in the
China-Australia trade relations. Unless there is a new round of trade
wars, we can continue to buy the [AUD/USD][4] with the targets at [0.675
and 0.69.][2]

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][7]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][8] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

![Aussie is going to be the winner][9]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/aussie-meets-qe/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/will-the-aussie-get-the-better-of-bears/
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/aussie-dollar-cftc-19-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=0182b67f00c91bd614495907a540bb99
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/rba-qe-19-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=5281d0be659ea1fe9b0f587990851161
   7. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=aussie-is-going-to-be-the-winner&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=aussie-is-going-to-be-the-winner&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-audusd-19-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=086c9a3f052c6e4ddd8ee8714102ec60