+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-19"
description = "technical analysis of GBPUSD and actual scenario for the next two months"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "technical analysis of GBPUSD and actual scenario for the next two months"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=10.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 19, 2020

May 19, 2020

GBPUSD. Fundamental and technical analysis. Short-term / Medium-term /
Long-term forecastMikhail Hypov

##  **GBPUSD: fundamental analysis, Brexit economic impact, channel and
trend analysis, vertical/horizontal volume analysis, TD candlestick
projections, Pivot points**

Today I’m going to examine another currency pair popular with
[LiteForex][1] traders. It’s [GBPUSD][2]. I’ll lay a special emphasis on
a medium-term and long-term forecast to highlight the pair’s main trends
in the coming months.

###  **Fundamental analysis**

Lots of fundamental details have already been provided by [Dmitri
Demidenko][3] in one of his latest [articles][4]. To put it shortly, the
forecast is negative. Although Great Britain left de jure the European
Union on 31st January 2020, there are still a total of 759 agreements
between the two parties that need revising before the end of the year. A
preliminary actual withdrawal date is set on 31st December 2020.
Considering the pandemic and quarantine, the date may be corrected.
However, economists say unanimously that Brexit will have severe
economic consequences for the UK. Brexit alone will reduce its economic
growth by 2%-15%. Estimations vary as much depends on how successfully
the parties will negotiate new agreements in new circumstances.

Still, I side with those experts who believe that Brexit consequences
will hit the UK hard.

![LiteForex: Fundamental / technical analysis of GBPUSD and actual
scenario for the next two months][5]

The Brexit vote map shows that the population was divided into two camps
(the blue areas voted for and the yellow ones - against). A slight
majority (51.9%) voted to leave the EU. At the same time, geographical
factors worsened the split of the society. We see that almost the whole
of Northern Ireland was against Brexit. Scotland and Gibraltar were
against too.

The story about Ireland deserves more details. The borders between
Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland were erased during
Britain’s membership of the European Union.  The EU membership used to
solve a lot of economic and domestic [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) issues. One of the most
burning issues started in the 16th century, when Irish territories were
occupied and transmitted to British landlords.  The issue of island-wide
Irish independence has been sharp since then. The Irish Republican Army,
recognized as a terrorist organization in the UK and the USA, would
actively fight for the independence of Northern Ireland from the British
Crown. After Brexit, this issue becomes topical again and London takes a
decision to keep a EU status for Northern Ireland as the Crown is afraid
of the IRA. This decision has been a precedent which will intensify the
split within the UK. Gibraltar has the same issues. It’s a small
peninsula to the south of Spain which Spain has claimed since the 19th
century. Almost 100% of Gibraltar’s population voted to stay in the EU.

Watching this “sovereignty parade”, Scotland wants to have a new
independence referendum in 2021. A similar referendum was held in 2014.
Back then, 55% of Scots voted to stay in the UK. That was a slight
majority and there’s a big risk that Scotland might demand a special
attitude and a right for self-determination regarding the exit amid the
situation around Northern Ireland and Gibraltar. Thus, the scale of
distress is quite large. Brexit will open Pandora’s box and London risks
losing the territories that had belonged to it even before the colonial
epoch began. These events can’t have a positive effect on the
[pound][2]. They will put pressure on it in the long term and aggravate
what has already been aggravated by the pandemic and economic crisis.

###  **Technical analysis**

![LiteForex: Fundamental / technical analysis of GBPUSD and actual
scenario for the next two months][6]



[The pound][2]’s trading [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) has been long enough for us to have a
global look.   The 12-month time frame above covers the fluctuations of
[GBPUSD ][2] registered since 1972. Based on channel analysis, we see a
global bearish trading channel no 1, with a descending channel no 2
developing inside.

The [pound][2] is near powerful support levels.   The most important one
is at [1.143][2], the level of opening in 1985. Another important level
is the middle of the channel which crosses the current price and is
located around [1.22][2]

![LiteForex: Fundamental / technical analysis of GBPUSD and actual
scenario for the next two months][7]

Now let’s move to detailed analysis. The 1-month time frame of
[GBPUSD][2] is in the chart above. We’re examining channel no 2. The
main trade volume here is at [1.20 - 1.33][2]. The pair is located near
the lower limit of this channel. Barring a false downward breakout in
March caused by coronavirus panics, the price has been moving
technically within this channel and consolidating near the upper limit.

![LiteForex: Fundamental / technical analysis of GBPUSD and actual
scenario for the next two months][8]

On the weekly time frame, the rate is consolidating near the lower
limits of a triangle. The rate fell outside the limits of the TM annual
candlestick’s projection, which means the [pound][2] is oversold. It is
very likely to return to the levels of the tolerance zone marked as a
pink rectangle.    It’s where the upper zone of the trading channel and
the point of control (according to the vertical volume chart) is located
- 1.31. So, there’s a big chance that the price will return to this
level in the medium term. Still, the [pound][2] is under pressure
currently.

###  **Short-term trading plan**

![LiteForex: Fundamental / technical analysis of GBPUSD and actual
scenario for the next two months][9]

An entry level of [1.20][2] looks appropriate to short-term trading for
the next couple of weeks. The situation doesn’t seem to be too bullish
currently. To go long, the pair needs to reach the area of the
candlestick annual projection above 1.23. Then we can go long safely and
set targets at 1.26. Until then, I would wait. The bulls’ revival we are
observing now isn’t enough and the level of 1.2 may be retested under a
bearish micro-trend. It’s where I’d buy the pound.

###  **Medium-term trading plan**

![LiteForex: Fundamental / technical analysis of GBPUSD and actual
scenario for the next two months][10]

In a scenario implying several months, we may expect consolidation at
1.20 - 1.26 with an impulsive exit to the upper limit of channel no 2
and the point of control at 1.30. I don’t think it will happen before
September, though. This scenario may be realised on a tide of optimism
around the COVID-19 vaccine and economic revival. But if a second
coronavirus wave arrives, this scenario will be cancelled.

###  **Long-term trading plan**

![LiteForex: Fundamental / technical analysis of GBPUSD and actual
scenario for the next two months][11]

In the long term, I don’t share any [bullish sentiment][2]. After the
expected fluctuation above the range of [1.20 - 1.33][2] in 2020, the
rate is likely to fall lower and retest a local [minimum ][2]of 1.140.
Most likely, we won’t be waiting long for that. There will be a lot of
negative factors at play at the same time: painful Brexit procedure,
Scottish independence referendum and aggravation of relations with the
IRA, Spain and Europe in whole. The latter’s future can hardly be called
unclouded amid the current global crisis.

###  **Conclusion**

Definitely, I wouldn’t recommend considering the [pound][2] as a safe
haven currency. You’d better think of the [Swiss franc][12] I wrote
about in my previous [article][13]. Anyway, no one will give universal
advice on [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) act during a crisis. Diversifying risks is therefore
the best recipe. My personal approach to making money in this situation
would be put a part of assets into long positions and use the other part
for active trading and high-risk investment. [LiteForex][1] has been a
great help here. Its spreads are tight and there’s also an anniversary
promotion. [Click and learn][14] [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) win a car or a house.

* * *

Good luck and profits, everyone!

Subscribe and keep in touch!

Yours,

Michael @Hypov

 _All materials are provided for educational purposes only. They aren’t
financial advice and don’t guarantee any profits. All trading decisions
you make are your responsibility only._

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][15]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][16] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

![GBPUSD. Fundamental and technical analysis. Short-term / Medium-term /
Long-term forecast][17]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/?author=64&_ga=2.91784602.1027453424.1589809964-2095657289.1460018267
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/pound-was-hit-by-a-train/
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.19/GBPUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=58940b8a38955531123da1a3bd89eee7
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.19/GBPUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=10af9ccf1b7e20ecb2a5cb29012fa87c
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.19/GBPUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=9031e139ae5d47c025085fb248d3418f
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.19/GBPUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=bc12419cc2d3779d800daeef6b0121be
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.19/GBPUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=367a66ffd058ecc83448f7c73a3a31d4
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.19/GBPUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=8ac3ec5bc56f97e4eecfbba715c145aa
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.19/GBPUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=c476a309daab5a5640e6e4a0e9111836
   12. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCHF&returnUrl=true
   13. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/usdchf-fundamental-and-technical-analysis-medium-term-forecast/
   14. www.liteforex.com/contests/dream-draw/?_ga=2.62491052.1027453424.1589809964-2095657289.1460018267
   15. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gbpusd-fundamental-and-technical-analysis-short-term-medium-term-long-term-forecast&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   16. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gbpusd-fundamental-and-technical-analysis-short-term-medium-term-long-term-forecast&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.19/GBPUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1ab32c88f0e8d16f342922bc0a3afe91