+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-30"
description = "Australian dollar price forecast 30 August 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Australian dollar price forecast 30 August 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-08-30

2021-08-30

Aussie: feast in time of plague. Forecast as of 30.08.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

When the economy is on the brink of recession, and the central bank is
ready to expand monetary stimulus, the growth of the national currency
is perceived as an anomaly. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up
a trading plan for [AUDUSD][1]

## Weekly Australian dollar fundamental forecast

Looking at the rate at which [AUDUSD][1] bulls began to rally during
Jerome Powell's Jackson Hole speech, one might think that all the
Aussie's problems were over. Not really. China's economy is slowing
down, Australia is on the brink of recession, iron ore correction is
intensifying, and lockdowns have been announced in Victoria and New
Wales. Victoria's authorities reported that the lockdown would continue
until at least September 5, while New Wales' officials do not intend to
stop lockdowns until October.

Undoubtedly, the main reason for the [AUDUSD][1] rise from the 9-month
low was the sell-off of the US dollar due to expectations of a slow
normalization of the Fed's monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). Jerome Powell said there was
no link between the QE taper and the rate hike. The market took this as
a signal of the central bank's snail pace. If inflation continues to be
high and the economy moves towards full employment, the Fed could raise
borrowing costs even during the QE program. I believe that greenback
traders will understand this very soon.

The [AUDUSD][1] rally looks strange amid divergence in monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)
and economic growth. Indeed, due to lockdowns, Australia will likely to
face a decline in GDP in the negative zone in the third quarter. In
particular, NAB expects the economy to contract by 3%. Moreover, the
lower the value of GDP in the second quarter, the deeper the decline
will be. The consensus forecast of Reuters experts suggests the growth
of the indicator by 0.5%; estimates range from -0.1% to +1.2%. In
January-March it was +1.8%, in October-December +3.2%. Thus, it is
evident that the GDP is slowing down, and rumors of a technical
recession are worsening business and consumer sentiment.

### Dynamics of business and consumer sentiment in Australia



 _Source: Bloomberg._

No improvements are expected. The government intends to fully open the
economy when the vaccination rate reaches 70-80%, but so far only 46.5%
of Australians have received at least one dose.

At the same time, the degree of pressure on the Aussie from China and
iron ore is starting to decrease. Ore prices have dropped by about 40%
since mid-July. The reason lies in Beijing's intention to prove to the
world that China is a leader in environmental protection. The
authorities intend to peak emissions in the steel industry by 2025,
leading to restrictions and a drop in refined steel production by 12.5
tons from May to July.

### Dynamics of [AUDUSD][1] and iron ore prices

 _Source: Trading Economics._

Alas, administrative methods do not lead to positive results. The
economy is starting to slow down and Beijing will need to put in huge
stimulus efforts in the fourth quarter to meet its GDP targets. Monetary
expansion of the PBoC can lead to the stabilization of iron ore prices.

### Weekly [AUDUSD][1] trading plan

In my opinion, the rise of [AUDUSD][1] prices creates an excellent
opportunity to sell the pair at attractive prices. A price drop below
0.727 should be used to enter short trades with the target at 0.7.





## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true