+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-15"
description = "Euro price forecast October 15 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast October 15 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-15

2020-10-15

Bulls are selling off the euro. Forecast for 15.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

Donald Trump is not giving up. The US president is focusing on the
economy, which supports the dollar. Will the Republican and the
greenback win? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make a [EURUSD][1]
trading plan.

##  ** **Fundamental** **euro** **forecast today****

The single European currency is trading flat, and the traders wonder
what signals they should consider. The price may go up following the
pound, rising amid the UK's willingness to continue negotiation with the
EU after the summit on October 15-16. It may also go down, following the
US stock indexes. Steven Mnuchin has sent the [S&P 500][2] down. The
Treasury Secretary says a fiscal stimulus deal is unlikely to be reached
before the election. It has started the sell-off in the US stock market
and strengthened the greenback.

The dollar will now respond to pathetic speeches and promises. According
to Donald Trump, the vote on November 3 is a choice between “historic
prosperity” and a “steep depression.” The US president is focusing on
economic expansion. It looks like Trump has ruled in two different
countries. The first economy was flourishing and reached record highs of
such indicators as employment, household incomes, and equity prices. The
second economy has had the worst performance ever, being damaged by the
COVID-19.

The Americans are ready to forgive Trump for unfulfilled promises about
3% GDP growth, reducing the foreign trade deficit, and building a wall
on the Mexican border. However, they will hardly forgive the inefficient
management of the pandemic. According to the Gallup survey, 56% of the
respondents believed they were better off now compared to four years
ago. It is more than that of Ronald Reagan and Barack Obama when they
were re-elected. Simultaneously, the survey showed that Trump, in
general, loses to Biden because of COVID-19.

The US pandemic management was inefficient, which cost the lives of more
than 200,000 people. It is evident from Bloomberg's research, according
to which, the pandemic management in the UK and the EU was more
effective than in the US. It remains uncertain how long the fiscal
stimulus will last in the US, and some aid packages have exhausted.
Therefore, economic stimulating in the US was less effective than in the
euro-area.

###  **Economic effect of stimulus**

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The positive effect of the stimulus supported the [EURUSD][1] rally in
the June-August period. Amid the timely and large-scale aid packages,
the euro-area economy performed better than the US. The second wave of
the pandemic turned everything upside down. Some European countries are
currently closing schools, canceling surgeries, and recruiting medical
students, getting prepared for a repeat of the nightmare scenario that
took place in the spring.

### Dynamics of leading economic indicators

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

###  **[EURUSD][1] **trading plan today

The market is growing on rumors and falling on the facts. The
[EURUSD][1] bulls hoped that the euro-area GDP recovery would be faster
than in the USA. They are exiting longs now, being disappointed. If the
euro breaks out the support at $1.1715, one could add up to the euro
shorts entered [level $1.178][3].

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/will-euro-catch-a-blue-wave-forecast-as-of-13102020/
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=bulls-are-selling-off-the-euro-forecast-for-15102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=bulls-are-selling-off-the-euro-forecast-for-15102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus