+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-15"
description = "Forecast for gold price for 15 October 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for gold price for 15 October 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-15

2020-10-15

Gold needs another dose. Forecast as of 15.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

Gold is rising along with the US stock market, behaving like a risky
asset. How can it be? Let try to answer this question and make up a
[XAUUSD][1] trading plan.

## Monthly fundamental forecast for gold

If you are going to invest in gold, you should know that the existing
stereotypes are deceiving. Gold is a safe-haven, which should be rising
when the inflation grows. However, the events over the past years prove
that it is not always so. Although the US consumer prices grew in
2015-2018, the [XAUUSD][1] price got stuck in the trading range of
$1150-$1350 amid the Fed’s monetary tightening. At the peak of the
recession ahead of the US presidential election, the uncertainty was
growing, which was a favorable environment for safe havens, however, the
gold price wasn’t rising.

The matter is not only in inflation but also in the Fed’s [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). During
the previous crisis, the US central bank ended the QE because of the PCE
changes and raised the federal funds rate. Nowadays, the Fed is willing
to put up with high inflation. Finally, the nominal Treasury yield will
be low, and the real yields will be declining along with the growth of
consumer prices. These facts suggest the [XAUUSD][1] uptrend could
resume in the long-term.

As for the middle-term and short-term outlook, much depends on who will
win the US presidential election on November 3 and which party will
control Congress. A ‘blue wave’ will signal the expansion of the fiscal
stimulus, which will support the US stock indexes and gold. Gold has
dropped after Steven Mnuchin said a new aid packaged wouldn’t be adopted
before the election. If the Republicans keep the control of the Senate,
they will hinder Joe Biden’s reforms. In this case, the uncertainty will
increase, which will support the greenback and press down gold.

### Dynamics of gold and S&P 500



 _Source_ _: Trading Economics_

The current environment is relational. Amid the Fed’s monetary stimulus,
each fifths dollar appeared in 2020, which significantly boosted the
money supply. At the same time, the central bank reached the financial
conditions' improvements, which also support the inflation growth.

### Dynamics of money supply in the USA

 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

### Dynamics of financial conditions and inflation in the USA

 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

According to BlackRock, inflation should rise in the medium-term, as
global production costs grow, the Fed will ignore the PCE rise above 2%.
Political pressure on the central bank to keep the interest rates low
will increase.

### Monthly trading plan for gold

Of course, there is a chance that the situation of 2011 when gold
crashed without an increase in consumer prices. However, the Fed was
proactive at that time and it is going to be patient now. In the short
run, the gold trend will depend on the results of the US presidential
election. A ‘blue wave’ will draw the gold price to $1970, and next to
$2015. A dispute in the Congress will make new stimulus unlikely. If so,
the uncertainty will grow and the gold price will fall towards $1850 and
$1770.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][2]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][3] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gold-needs-another-dose-forecast-as-of-15102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   3. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gold-needs-another-dose-forecast-as-of-15102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus