+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-15"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (15 October 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (15 October 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-15

2020-10-15

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 15.10.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

Oil is testing the strong resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67 — 40.92].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil is testing the strong resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67 — 40.92]. If
the resistance is broken out, the next target in the uptrend Target Zone
6 [49.17 – 48.42].

If the resistance is held down, the price will be corrected down to the
key support zone [37.34 — 36.72].

Let us analyze the short-term trend. It is upward. The upside target is
Target Zone [42.56 – 42.01].

Yesterday, bulls broke out Additional Zone [40.40 – 40.27], which is the
intraday resistance. For today, I suggest entering purchases in the
broken-out zone.

The border of the uptrend is far from the current price, in the zone of
[38.85 — 38.60].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in the zone of [40.40 - 39.88]. TakeProfit:
41.35, Target Zone [42.56 - 42.01]. StopLoss: according to the pattern
rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold is testing the trendline in the medium-term chart. It is strong
support. The price will continue falling if bears break out the support
and consolidate below. Otherwise, the price will be rising and break
through the high of this week.

It is clear from the short-term chart that gold is trading in the short-
term uptrend. The trend target is the upper Target Zone [1951.0 –
1941.7].

Traders yesterday were testing the strong resistance Additional Zone
[1911.3 - 1908.7], trying to break it out. The zone hasn’t been broken
out. As a result, the price went down a little. There is not a sell
pattern yet. There is not a pattern to buy in Intermediary Zone [1880.7
– 1875.4].

For today, I recommend expecting either the AZ breakout and
consolidation above or the IZ test and a buy pattern.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy in the retest of Additional Zone [1911.3 - 1908.7] after the breakout and consolidation. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1951.0 - 1941.7]. StopLoss: below the next local low.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1880.7 - 1875.4]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1951.0 - 1941.7]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro middle-term downtrend continues. The price is rolling back from
Target Zone [1.1832 – 1.1812]. Traders are testing the support [1.1733 –
1.1725]. If the price breaks out the zone, there will be a false
breakout pattern to sell.

The EURUSD local short-term trend is up. Traders were testing the trend
key support yesterday [1.1731 - 1.1721] but failed to break it out. We
shall continue to look for a buy pattern to enter long positions.

For today, I suggest expecting the false breakout of yesterday’s low.
Next, we should look for a Price Action buy setup.

It will be relevant to sell the euro when the price breaks out
Intermediary Zone and consolidates below at the US session. In this
case, the local trend will turn down, and the sell target will be the
lower Target Zone [1.1631 — 1.1611].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1731 - 1.1721].
TakeProfit: 1.1827. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-15102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-15102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus