+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-15"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 15, 2020

June 15, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.06.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

Oil price is being corrected down in the middle-term uptrend. The
correction target is likely to be the test of the trend key support
[31.01 - 30.11]. Once the zone is tested, I recommend entering buy
trades according to the pattern with the target at the high of last week
+ Target Zone 5 [41.67 — 40.92].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.06.2020][1]

The short-term oil trend is yet up. However, sellers are now trying to
turn it down. The trend will reverse if the price breaks out
Intermediary Zone [35.51 – 35.06] and consolidates below the zone at the
US trade session.

If so, on the next trading day, we shall enter oil sell trades with the
target in the lower Target Zone [31.01 – 30.11].

Until this happens, it is relevant to enter buy trades according to the
pattern in the trend key support zone. The pattern will emerge when the
price goes back to the support.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.06.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [35.51 - 35.06].
TakeProfit: 40.00, Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

Gold is trading in the middle-term uptrend. According to the previous
trading recommendations, we expect the entry point according to the
false breakout pattern. The upside target is the high of May.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.06.2020][4]

The short-term chart displays the short-term uptrend with the target in
Target Zone [1771.3 - 1762.2].

The price is now trading in the correction and testing the strong
intraday support Additional Zone [1721.7 – 1719.4]. If the support is
held up, there should be a buy pattern.

Otherwise, bears will try to reach Intermediary Zone [1698.9 – 1694.3],
which is the trend key support. Once the zone is reached, it will also
be relevant to enter buy trades.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.06.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:  **

Buy from level 1705.6. TakeProfit: 1764.4. StopLoss: 1687.2.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

In the longer timeframe, the euro-dollar is trading in the middle-term
uptrend. Traders are now testing the trend key support [1.1240 –
1.1222]. If it is held up, there should be a pattern to buy with the
target at Target Zone 4 [1.1473 – 1.1455].

An alternative scenario suggests the breakout of the support and the
price consolidation below. If so, the trend will turn down, and it will
be relevant to sell with the target at Target Zone 2 [1.1058 — 1.1040].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.06.2020][7]

Last Friday, sellers reached the sell target in the new short-term
downtrend trend, Target Zone [1.1240 – 1.1222]. If the price breaks out
the zone downside, it should continue falling with the downside target
at Gold Zone [1.1149 – 1.1140].

I recommend entering new sell trades on the correction. The trend key
resistance is now in the zone of [1.1312 – 1.1303]. If the local low is
broken through, the resistance zone should be moved.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.06.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:   **

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1262 - 1.1258]. TakeProfit: 1.1215. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1312 - 1.1303]. TakeProfit: 1.1215. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.06.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_150620_1.png?w=30&s=9db4779281eaf837b64328ce7744bcfb
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_150620_2.png?w=30&s=493339640c21854390953a2773b82e76
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_150620_1.png?w=30&s=ee6d785444c30783b4a5a7f4a6d7fb3d
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_150620_2.png?w=30&s=4be36c30e325f5f49ab0c930425958ad
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_150620_1.png?w=30&s=0644e9b78b949a506ae50ed1fdb2c22a
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_150620_2.png?w=30&s=4431c76559442343150f764491364864
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-15062020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-15062020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/oil_39_1000x545.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=f92411b844936044d571e71a1690fee8