+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-15"
description = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 15, 2020

June 15, 2020

Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysisRoman Onegin

## Forecast for BTCUSD, LTCUSD, ETHUSD, EOSUSD, XRPUSD pairs

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[BTCUSD][1]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][2]**

The BTCUSD market is forming the long-term corrective wave 4 as a bear
double zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]. There is now forming the linking wave [X]
that is also a double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y), where the sub-waves (W) and
(X) have completed, the bullish zigzag (Y) is now developing. Let us
study it in more detail on the eight-hour timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][3]

The (Y) wave is likely to be developing as a simple bullish zigzag that
is composed of the three major sub-waves A-B-C. There is now forming the
impulse wave A, where the first three segments have completed, the long
correction [4] is still developing. Based on the structure unfolding, it
is a skewed triangle, as the channel lines are directed up, as the main
trend. This correction should soon end. After that, the market should
start rising in the final impulse [5] to a level of 11000, as it is
outlined in the chart.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[ETHUSD][4]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][5]**

In the global triple zigzag, there is forming the upward linking wave
[X] that has started after the bear wave [Y] finished. The linking wave
[X] is likely to be a double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y), where the final wave
(Y) is unfolding, it is composed of the sub-waves A-B-C. Let us see its
structure in more detail on the eight-hour timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][6]

There is now developing the bullish impulse wave A that is composed of
five sub-waves, four of which have completed. There is now forming wave
[5], which is likely to be am ending diagonal (1)-(2)-(3)-(4)-(5). All
motive sub-waves, waves (1)-(3)-(5) of this diagonal are zigzags. This
scenario will be confirmed if the corrective wave (4) completes lower
than the endpoint of zigzag (1). Therefore, the market should be
declining in wave (4) to a level of 204.00. When wave (4) finishes, the
market should be rising in wave (5) to a level of 252.00.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[LTCUSD][7]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][8]**

The [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) LTCUSD chart displays the structure of the large corrective
wave (B), which is unfolding as a down triple zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The first four segments of this triple zigzag are
likely to have completed, and there is now forming the final motive wave
[Z] as a simple bear zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). Let us see its structure in
more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][9]

In the down zigzag (A)-(B)-(C), there completed the impulse wave (A)
that is composed of the sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. After that, the market has
turned up and continued rising in the corrective wave (B). This
correction is likely to be a normal zigzag A-B-C, where wave A is an
impulse, and the corrective wave B is developing as a double three that
should soon complete. The B wave should complete at a level of around
39.50. Next, the price should start rising in the final impulse C to a
level above the previous high hit by wave A.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[EOSUSD][10]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][11]**

The EOSUSD market is forming the global down corrective wave B that
started in April 2018. Wave B is composed of five sub-waves
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z] and is unfolding as a bearish triple zigzag. The
first three sub-waves out of five look complete. There is now forming
the second linking wave [X]. Let us see its structure in more detail on
the eight-hour timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][12]

The upward linking wave [X] can complete as a simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C).
The bullish impulse wave (A), which is composed of five sub-waves, has
completed. There is now developing the corrective wave (B) that should
be a double three W-X-Y. In the next few days, the price should be
moving down in the [c] impulse of the Y zigzag to a level of 2.05. At
this level, the (B) correction will be 61.8% of the (A) impulse. Next,
the price can start rising in wave (C), as it is outlined in the chart.

* * *

###  **Wave analysis for[XRPUSD][13]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][14]**

Like other major cryptocurrencies, the XRPUSD market is forming the down
triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The sub-waves [W]-[X]-[Y] have
completed, and there is now developing the second linking wave [X]. It
is likely to be a simple bullish zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). Let us see the
chart structure in more detail in a shorter timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][15]

It is clear form the H8 chart that the impulse wave (A) has completed,
and there is now forming the corrective wave (B) that is a double zigzag
W-X-Y. The price should be declining in the down wave Y to a level of
0.158. After this level is reached, the market should turn up and start
forming the upward impulse (C).

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][16]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][17] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysis][18]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/15-06-2020X/BTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=2cc3decee1c03d5a0429170a7305b428
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/15-06-2020X/BTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=e3ec2d499fa21161b1ed4ff6ca1656db
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/15-06-2020X/ETHUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=27607334c49ad87b175a4a9d1e8c95e9
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/15-06-2020X/ETHUSDH8.png?w=30&s=fed55dd3143ed27a9eacbfe5b23a9140
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/15-06-2020X/LTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=a378deb482cd0d14d2807a17fcd5ffbc
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/15-06-2020X/LTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=a7acdd576a6c6702e001e82afbe3ee90
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/15-06-2020X/EOSUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=98f12fcb4b2e4eda2d187f49da9cc1ef
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/15-06-2020X/EOSUSDH8.png?w=30&s=c344b0990186bcf9f1517952cff61387
   13. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/15-06-2020X/XRPUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=52fd3076770ac2a2f2de9a0cf456524f
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/15-06-2020X/XRPUSDH8.png?w=30&s=0c3373da5ca13cc2b4afd271929dd8cd
   16. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-06-15&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   17. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-06-15&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/1-elliott-waves-weekly-forecast-for-[BTC](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/who-is-the-creator-of-bitcoin/)usd-ethusd-ltcusd-eosusd-xrpusd_1000x545.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1480cfce2406c81b57be8a77076342f1