+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-15"
description = "XAU/USD forecast for 15.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "XAU/USD forecast for 15.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 15, 2020

June 15, 2020

Gold requires financial repressionDmitri Demidenko

## Gold traders rely on the Fed

The world’s leaders compared their fight with the coronavirus with the
world war. This war won’t end after COVID-19 is defeated, as the
governments will have to repay huge debts. In the US alone the public
debt will be up from 109% to 131% of the GDP in 2020. According to
Goldman Sachs research, the debt-to-GDP ratio is developed economies
will hit the levels recorded in the 1940s. At that time, to avert the
growth of borrowing costs, the Fed introduced financial repression,
including the Treasury yield control and setting the rules encouraging
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s to hold such securities in the portfolios. If the US central
bank uses the experience of the past, the gold price will surge.

 **Dynamics of government debts**

![LiteForex: XAU/USD forecast for 15.06.2020][1]

 _Source: Financial Times_

Gold has featured a strong response to the outcomes of the FOMC June
meeting. Jerome Powell made [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s doubt in the V-shaped recovery of
the US economy, and so, 10-year Treasury yield went back to 0.7%. The
growth of the bond market rates in early summer was excessive and could
hinder the GDP return to the trend. The gold market is quite responsive
to the changes in Treasury yields. So, the Fed’s willingness to buy $80
billion in government bonds per month has encouraged the bulls.
According to Gain Capital Group, this is a perfect scenario for
[XAU/USD][2]. Concerns about slow recovery of economic growth and an
unlimited monetary stimulus support the gold uptrend.

 **Dynamics of gold and Treasury yield**

![LiteForex: XAU/USD forecast for 15.06.2020][3]

 _Source: Trading Economics_

If the Fed manages to hold the bond market rates, the decline of the
real yield amid a gradual acceleration of the inflation will support the
price growth of the precious metal. Other growth drivers for the
[XAU/USD][2] could be the weakness of the dollar and the stocks rally.
The greenback is now seen as a main safe haven, so deterioration of the
epidemiological situation in the USA has strengthened the US dollar,
weighing on the S&P 500, which has somehow discouraged gold buyers. The
gold price has been down to the important support at $1715-$1720 per
ounce, the bulls need to hold the support up.

In my opinion, the success of the European countries in the fight with
COVID-19 should suggest that the euro-area economy will recover quicker
than the US. Do not forget that the EU is an export-led region, its
close trade relations with China will play an important role in the
future. The euro-area economy was hit by the US-China trade wars as much
as China. However, in the present environment, the recovery of China’s
economy is a very positive factor for the EU. Given the significant
share of the euro in the structure of the USD index (57%), the downtrend
of the US dollar will start sooner or later. This scenario could be
canceled if the White House starts a new trade war, which is not
advantageous under the current conditions. The escalation of the US-
China trade battle will trigger the S&P 500 sell-off, which will press
down Donald Trump’s approval ratings.

Therefore, gold buyers may count on such benefits as the decline of the
Treasury real yield and the greenback’s weakening. Therefore, I would
recommend buying gold if the gold price breaks out the resistance at
$1745-$1750. The target could be set at $1830.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Gold requires financial repression][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/debt-gdp-15-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=eb9d9095f9b9b83aaede0f995a0e674e
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/gold-bonds-15-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=c1fb8ab3fe65544701883b62df362d5c
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gold-requires-financial-repression&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gold-requires-financial-repression&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-gold-15-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=8caa78f8a71d36212ee9a2a85337b10f