+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-28"
description = "US dollar price forecast 28 January 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 28 January 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-28

2021-01-28

Forex in February: fighting for vaccine flares up. Forecast for GBPUSD,
EURGBP, AUDUSD, NZDUSD, EURAUD, EURNZD...Dmitri Demidenko

$1.9 trillion fiscal stimulus, vaccinations, and US-China relations.
These are three main topics that financial markets will be following in
February. How will they affect [GBPUSD][1], [EURGBP][2], [AUDUSD][3],
[NZDUSD][4], [EURAUD][5], [EURNZD][6], [USDSEK][7]? Let's discuss the
market outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Monthly G10 currencies fundamental forecast

At the end of December, the international currency market was in a state
of euphoria. Global risk appetite was growing by leaps and bounds, and
the US dollar was falling. It would seem that nothing foreshadowed a
storm. All the more surprising were the statistical analysis signals
with a fundamental bias: ladies and gentlemen, do not ignore the facts -
greenback in January usually at its best! And the seasonal factor won
back! All four [announced strategies][8], including selling [EURUSD][9]
and [AUDNZD][10], and buying [USDCHF][11] and [USDSEK][7], have been
profitable. The more interesting it will be to observe the research in
the field of statistics in February.

The main favorites at the end of winter are the Australian and New
Zealand dollars. From 1975 to 2020, the Aussie closed in the green zone
26 times out of 46, and the Kiwi - 25 times out of 46. At the same time,
for the last three years, both currencies have invariably been in the
red in February. I associate it with the factors of the trade war
between the USA and China and a pandemic. The British pound and the
Norwegian krone are prominent outsiders in Forex in the middle of the
first quarter. Attention is drawn to the fact that all European monetary
units felt neither good nor bad.

### Rise-fall periods

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex calculations._

An analysis of the medians and averages suggests that buying the
Australian dollar and the Swedish krona at the end of winter is
associated with increased risks. Despite the leadership in the first
indicator, the Aussie is among the main losers in the second. This
speaks in favor of a severe [AUDUSD][3] pullback in the event of an
escalation of the conflict between the US and China

### Averages and medians

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex calculations._

Slow vaccination in Sweden can also deliver troubles for the [USDSEK][7]
bears. Statistics indicate that in bad times for itself, the krona
sagged by an average of 3% per month, which is the worst result among
all G10 currencies.

### Price dynamics during rise-fall periods

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex calculations._

In my opinion, the main topics of February will be the passage of the
$1.9 trillion fiscal incentive from Joe Biden through Congress, the
speed of the vaccination campaign, and the new US president's attitude
towards Beijing. Europe's vaccine problems in January are likely to
persist for several weeks. The EU is asking AstraZeneca to take some of
the doses from Britain and transfer them to mainland Europe. A new
conflict is brewing between Brussels and London. It could turn into
trouble for the [GBPUSD][1] bulls in the first half of February and for
the [EURGBP][2] bears at the end of the month.

If Joe Biden slightly softens the United States' position about China
(he has already canceled Donald Trump's decree banning American
investments in shares of Chinese companies related to the military
sector), then at the end of winter, the [EURAUD][5] and [EURNZD][6]
sales and [AUDUSD][3] and [NZDUSD][4] purchases will look pretty
attractive.

Traders can work out the Swedish krona's seasonal weakness by forming
long [USDSEK][7] positions. In this case, the reason for buying will be
the development of the corrective movement in US stock indices and the
associated deterioration of the global risk appetite.







## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURGBP&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NZDUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURAUD&returnUrl=true
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURNZD&returnUrl=true
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDSEK&returnUrl=true
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/forex-in-january-is-dollar-back-in-the-game/
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDNZD&returnUrl=true
   11. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCHF&returnUrl=true