+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-03"
description = "Pound price forecast 3 June 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 3 June 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-03

2021-06-03

Pound draws fire. Forecast as of 03.06.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Sterling is one of the best G10 performers in 2021 and its leading
position is well-founded. However, recently the strength of the
[GBPUSD][1] bulls has dried up. What prevents them from continuing the
rally? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan

## Weekly pound fundamental forecast

Thanks to a rapidly growing economy, rumors of the BoE's monetary
normalization, and belief in ending the production slump prevailing in
the UK after the 2007-2009 recession, the British pound has all the
necessary prerequisites to continue the rally. But [GBPUSD][1] bulls
still lack something. The full opening of the economy on June 21, as
planned by Boris Johnson's government, may not happen due to the new
strain of COVID-19 and fears about strong US jobs report. These factors
prevented the sterling from staying at the high levels in the last 3
years against US dollars.

It seemed that the breakout of the upper border of the consolidation
range of 1.409-1.422 would encourage the [GBPUSD][1] bulls to grow. It
was hard to think of better conditions for this: the UK manufacturing
sector PMI in May peaked since the start of research in 1992, as well as
the new orders and employment data, and the hawkish stance of the BoE
plenipotentiaries increased the likelihood of an interest rate increase
by 25 bps by August 2022 to 46%. According to Dave Ramsden, there are
risks that due to overheating of the real estate market, high inflation
will last longer than currently assumed. Christian Vlige said that next
year's main interest rate hike could become a reality if the labor
market recovers faster than the BoE predicts.

Investors are wondering whether the Bank of England will join its
counterparts from Canada, Norway, and New Zealand, ready to normalize
monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), while the expectations of the UK GDP acceleration to
7.25% in 2021 would seem to contribute to the [GBPUSD][1] rally.

However, the dynamics of the pound risk reversal hints that the bulls
should be extremely careful. The demand for sterling sell [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) on a
weekly investment horizon is higher than for fixed-term buy contracts.

### Dynamics of [GBPUSD][1] and pound risk reversal



 _Source: Bloomberg._

It is possible that the accelerated vaccination in the UK has already
stopped encouraging the [GBPUSD][1] bulls. Moreover, the postponement of
the full opening of the economy due to a new coronavirus strain forces
some sterling buyers to take profits from the longs. Let's not forget
that there are always two currencies in any pair, and a greenback
getting up from its knees does not give the pound a quiet life.

### Weekly [GBPUSD][1] trading plan

After the disastrous April and May, USD bulls are sincerely counting on
a strong US jobs report, which could push up Treasury yields and
strengthen the US dollar. In any case, the pound should brace up ahead
of the release of the US jobs report before continuing the rally. If it
works out, then it will be possible to enter the [GBPUSD][1] longs with
targets at 1.433 and 1.45. Otherwise, it should be postponed for some
time and catch rebounds from supports at 1.4075 and 1.4 to form long
positions.



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true