+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-11"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, EURUSD for December 14-18 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, EURUSD for December 14-18 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-11

2020-12-11

Medium-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD 11.12.2020Alex Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest trading
signals for traders who trade in medium-term trends.

This week, the gold price has been testing the zone of good sell prices
[1890 - 1850], where I recommended entering sell trades.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for next week: USCrude analysis

It is still relevant to buy oil in the medium-term trend with the local
targets at highs. The medium-term trend is up. The primary upside target
is Target Zone 3 [49.32 – 48.81].

It is beneficial to enter buy trades at the trend line, marked with a
pink line in the chart. When the price is corrected down to this support
zone, enter purchases provided there is a Price Action pattern to buy.

It will be relevant to sell if bears break out the trendline and
consolidate the price below. In this case, we could consider sell trades
in the correction, the downside target will be the trend key support
[42.92 — 42.45].

### [USCrude ][1]Trading tips for the upcoming week:

Buy according to the pattern at the trendline marked with pink in the
chart. TakeProfit: the local high in the H4 chart, Target Zone 3 [49.32
- 48.81]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for next week: XAUUSD analysis

This week, the gold price has been testing the zone of good sell prices
[1890 - 1850], where I recommended entering sell trades with the target
at the low of November + Target Zone 3 [1736.4 - 1727.1]. Everything is
going according to plan. You can move the trades to the breakeven.

If you haven’t opened sell positions in the zone of [1890 - 1850], look
for sell entries according to the pattern. There will appear a 1-2-3
pattern if the price breaks out at level 1825.3.

### [XAUUSD][2] Trading tips for the upcoming week:

Sell according to the pattern in the zone of [1850 - 1890]. TakeProfit:
Target Zone [1775.2 - 1765.2], Target Zone 3 [1736.4 - 1727.1].
StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/dollar price forecast for next week: EURUSD analysis

There is an interesting market situation in the EURUSD price chart on
Friday morning. There is a medium-term uptrend in the medium-term chart
with the target at Target Zone 3 [1.2232 – 1.2212]. This week, the price
has been testing a technical support level – a sloping trendline. The
level hasn't been broken out, and traders enter new purchases. The
target of the local buy trades is to break through the high of last
week.

If the price fails to break through the high and again goes down to the
trendline, the market could break out the trendline and go down to
Target Zone [1.1993 – 1.1975] following a deep correction.

According to the market analysis, I recommend holding the purchases
entered at the sloped support level at the breakeven next week. If the
price breaks out the level, one should enter a sell trade with a stop
loss above the next local high and a take profit at Target Zone [1.1993
— 1.1975].

### [EURUSD][3] Trading tips for the upcoming week:

  1. Hold up purchases entered at the trendline. TakeProfit: 1.2175. StopLoss: at breakeven.

  2. If the price breaks out the trend line downside, sell on the retest. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1993 - 1.1975]. StopLoss: above the next local high.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-11122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-11122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus