+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-11"
description = "UK is going to leave the EU without a trade deal"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "UK is going to leave the EU without a trade deal"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=18.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-11

2020-12-11

Pound didn’t like the dinner. Forecast as of 11.12.2020Dmitri Demidenko

UK is going to leave the EU without a trade deal

## The dinner meeting of the British Prime Minister with the European
Commission President drives the no-deal Brexit closer

You can endlessly look at three things: how a candle is burning, how
water is flowing, and how the UK is leaving the EU. The end is close.
The climax should have been at the dinner meeting of  British Prime
Minister Boris Johnson and European Commission President Ursula von der
Leyen. Something went wrong from the outset. Johnson was asked to put on
the mask. The dinner menu was rich with symbolism. Fish was on the menu
— scallops and turbot — and fishing rights at the top of the talks, as a
threat of import tariffs in case of a no-deal Brexit. The dinner a sort
of pitted the devil-may-care Johnson against a frugal and precise EC
president. An advocate of sovereignty and supporters of order ...

> \- People say, you got the job in a fire department, didn’t you?

> \- Yes, but I have already been fired.

> -Why?

> \- I like to watch the fire burning.

The current UK Prime Minister failed to be a fireman. He replaced
Theresa May, and at first, seemed to be able to save the UK from the
fire of a no-deal Brexit. The public approved loud statements in the I’d
-rather-die-in-a-ditch manner only in the beginning. But the clock was
ticking; the time was going, and, when there were several days left
before the make-or-break moment for a Brexit deal, there had been no
result.

Johnson wants  UK to end up having a relationship with the EU after
Brexit that is much more like the one Australia has with the bloc than
Canada does. The tariffs should be on the WTO conditions. The European
Union demands too much. The EU officials say the UK must keep up with
changing EU rules, and the prime minister is quick to draw parallels.
“If the EU decides to have a haircut, then the UK is going to have a
haircut or else face punishment. Or if the EU decides to buy an
expensive handbag, then the UK has to buy an expensive handbag too or
else face tariffs,”  he said.

Britain wants to protect its sovereignty; the European Union aims at
maintaining a single market, ensuring equal rules for all countries not
only today but also tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. After long
years of close partnership, the UK and the EU are going to divorce and
find other partners. I am married to the fourth wife...Had I known all
women are alike, I would still be married to the first one!

Don’t be afraid of letting people go. People destined for you by fate
won’t go. Thank those who leave for getting life experience. The EU-UK
relations come undone, talks hit a dead end. However, any dead-end could
still become a tunnel. In diplomatic [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/), entering the tunnel means
the final stage of the negotiations. They still can make a Brexit deal,
although one of t he British ministers, following the Supper Summit,
exclaimed something like “No deal!”

> \- Ursula! What is on the menu today?

> \- Pea soup cooked last week.

> \- And what is the second course?

> \- Some medicine for your stomach ….

Following a few months of robust growth, the GBP chart again looks like
a roller-coaster in December. Over the past four years after the Brexit
referendum in 2016, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s should have got used to the pound’s
volatility. Not all traders did. After all, the result will soon be
known.



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )