+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-26"
description = "Euro price forecast 26 November 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 26 November 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-26

2020-11-26

Euro has enough power to continue rally. Forecast as of 26.11.2020Dmitri
Demidenko

The USD weakening has contributed to the EURUSD rally. However, the euro
has its own growth drivers. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up
a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

##  **Weekly euro fundamental forecast**

The financial markets are searching for a balance between the short-term
negative from the second COVID-19 wave and the medium-term positive from
the vaccines. The US domestic data signal the US economic recovery,
though a little slower than earlier. The [EURUSD][1] continues to rally
up to 1.2. In September, the ECB’s verbal interventions discouraged the
euro bulls, but now, the euro buyers are going ahead.

The US stock indexes have been down a little amid the number of
hospitalizations in the USA has been record-high during fifteen
consecutive days. Nonetheless, the US stock market is close to all-time
highs. The stock indices didn’t crash down, as Trump had suggested in
the case of Biden’s victory. Furthermore, the [S&P 500][2] 7.7% rally
since the election day has been the second-best result for a new
president in 90 years. The stock market performance has significantly
overtaken the rally in 2016 when Trump became the president. The growing
demand for risk assets and lower political uncertainty are important
drivers pressing down the safe-haven assets, including the US dollar.
The financial markets react positively to Biden’s actions, which is a
bearish factor for the greenback.

I can’t say the euro hasn’t got other growth drivers but for the
dollar’s weakness. The current situation is similar to that in the late
spring-early summer. The lockdowns are helpful; the number of
coronavirus cases in the euro-area countries is declining. Six months
ago, this fact, together with the fiscal stimulus and easing political
risks, has started the [EURUSD][1] rally.

###  **Dynamics of COVID-19 cases**

 _Source_ _: Financial Times_

The CEOs of 55 of Europe's leading industrial companies with a revenue
of over €2 trillion express confidence in the euro-area economic
recovery. They noted a significant improvement in the business
environment, even before the vaccines' good [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) hit the financial
world. I think it is natural. The European economy has always been
dependent on exports. The international trade increased by 12.5% in Q3,
following a decline of 12.2% in Q2. According to the Netherlands Bureau
for Economic Policy Analysis, global trade improvement is a strong
factor supporting the euro-area economy and the euro. This is the
fastest growth of the indicator after its most rapid decline in the
entire [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) of accounting since 2000. __

The euro has domestic growth drivers. But still, most of the[EURUSD][1]
rally results from the USD sell-offs also because of the Fed’s
aggressive monetary expansion. According to the Fed’s November meeting
minutes, the central bank is willing to correct its $120- billion asset
purchase program if the circumstances change. But there is nothing about
any active measure right sway. Morgan Stanley believes there is a 35%
chance of the QE expansion in 2021.

###  **Weekly[EURUSD][1] trading plan**

So, if the [S&P 500][2] rally continues, the [EURUSD][1] could hit the
level of around 1.2 already this year. However, the euro bulls first
should consolidate the price above $1.19 and break out the resistance at
$1.1955-$1.1965.

[EURUSD][3] current rate in the Forex market:

EURUSD = 1.19120

1-day change

-0.00016 (-0.01%)

Open an account with a reliable broker and start earning money on an
easy-to-use platform in the global foreign exchange market.

[ Open account ][4]

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. my.lite.forex/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-has-enough-power-to-continue-rally-forecast-as-of-26112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup