+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-26"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (26 November 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (26 November 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-26

2020-11-26

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 26.11.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The Gold price consolidated below the medium-term support Target Zone 2
[1829.4 — 1820.1].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The oil price broke out Target Zone 2 [44.22 – 43.71]. The next growth
target is Target Zone 3 [49.32 – 48.81].

The trend key support is now in the zone of [41.32 — 40.85].

The short-term oil uptrend continues. The price consolidated above
Target Zone [45.24 – 44.77] yesterday. The next growth target is Gold
Zone [47.38 – 47.14].

Today, I recommend expecting the price correction down to the strong
supports and looking for a buy pattern.

The strong support zones are Additional Zone [44.89 - 44.77] and
Intermediary Zone [43.70 - 43.46]. If the price breaks through the local
high, we shall rearrange the support zones.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [44.89 - 44.77]. TakeProfit: 46.02, Gold Zone [47.38 - 47.14]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [43.70 - 43.46]. TakeProfit: 46.02, Gold Zone [47.38 - 47.14]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

The gold price consolidated below the middle-term support Target Zone 2
[1829.4 – 1820.1]. The next downside target is in Target Zone 3 [1736.4
– 1727.1].

The traders didn’t react to TZ2, so it is not relevant to enter short
trades in the zone. I suggest we consider short entries in the
resistance zone of [1861.0 – 1850.4] or the trend key resistance [1926.8
— 1915.3].

Let us switch to the shorter timeframe. The volatility was low
yesterday. The short-term gold trend is still down. The downside target
is Gold Zone [1792.9 – 1787.2].

Yesterday’s trading ideas are relevant today. Expect a correction up to
the resistance zones, look for a sell pattern, and sell gold. You should
take a part of profits at the low of November 24.

If the price breaks out Additional Zone upside, it will be relevant to
buy up to Intermediary Zone.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1832.0 - 1829.1]. TakeProfit: 1801.5, Gold Zone [1792.9 - 1787.2]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1863.6 - 1857.8]. TakeProfit: 1801.5, Gold Zone [1792.9 - 1787.2]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

EURUSD uptrend continues, the price breaks out the high of November 9.
The target for middle-term purchases is Target Zone 2 [1.2032 – 1.2012].
If the price consolidates above this zone, it will become a support zone
where we can enter new purchases in the middle-term.

The price is trading in the short-term uptrend, going up to Target Zone
[1.2000 - 1.1977]. The market has broken through yesterday’s high. We
should rearrange the support zones.

Today, I recommend entering purchases according to the patterns in
Additional Zone [1.1878 - 1.1873] and Intermediary Zone [1.1826 –
1.1815]. The first take profit should be at today’s high.

If the euro price is being corrected down and breaks out AZ, we could
consider selling the pair with the target in IZ. It is not relevant to
sell the euro before the price breaks out the first support zone.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1878 - 1.1873]. TakeProfit: 1.1928, Target Zone [1.2000 - 1.1977]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1826 - 1.1815]. TakeProfit: 1.1928, Target Zone [1.2000 - 1.1977]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-26112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-26112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus