+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-07"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (7 October 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (7 October 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-10-07

2021-10-07

Short-term analysis for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 07.10.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

The short-term euro downtrend continued yesterday.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Yesterday, oil corrected strongly and tested the Intermediary Zone 76.96
- 76.70. The Intermediary Zone serves as the short-term uptrend's key
support. At the moment, buyers are holding this zone. So, it is
profitable to look for purchases according to the pattern with a target
at yesterday's high.

If the Intermediary Zone is broken out today and the price closes below
at the US session, the trend will reverse down. In this case, from
tomorrow, sell oil with the target at the Target Zone 74.41 - 73.90.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone 76.96 - 76.70.
TakeProfit: 77.90, 79.45. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold is trading between the Target Zone 1767 - 1763 and the Intermediary
Zone 1751 - 1749. On the one hand, the price is under pressure from the
medium-term downtrend. On the other hand, a short-term uptrend supports
the price. You can consider both directions to enter trades.

Since yesterday the traders tested the Intermediary Zone and it was
held, the price reached the Target Zone. The Target Zone was also held,
so today it is profitable to look for sales in the resistance level of
1765 with the target at level 1747.

In case of a breakout and price consolidation above the Target Zone 1767
- 1763, then the Gold Zone 1786 - 1784 will become a new target for
purchases within the short-term trend. In this case, consider long
trades above level 1767.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Aggressive: Sell from the level of 1765. TakeProfit: 1747. StopLoss:
1770.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The short-term euro downtrend continued yesterday. As a result, the
Target Zone 2 1.1557 - 1.1539 was reached. Target zone 2 was held by
buyers, so now the price rebounded up.

The euro price is trying to recover at the support level of 1.1565. Then
the Additional Zone 1.1577 - 1.1573 will be tested. If the AZ is held by
sellers, the fall will continue, and yesterday's low 1.1537 will serve
as a target.

If the Additional Zone is broken out upside, then the correction will
continue to the Intermediary Zone 1.1626 - 1.1617. The IZ together with
the resistance level of 1.1633 form a single zone of ​​the trend's key
resistance.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone 1.1577 - 1.1573.
TakeProfit: 1.1537. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-07102021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-07102021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus