+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-03"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 03.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 03.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 3, 2020

June 3, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 03.06.2020Alex Rodiоnov

## EUR/USD broke out Target Zone 2 [1.1109 – 1.1091] yesterday. The next
target in the middle-term uptrend is Target Zone 3 [1.1291 — 1.1273]

###  **USCrude –** **oil** ****

The price has broken out Target Zone 4 [34.17 – 33.42] at the Asian
session today. The next upside target for the next week or two is Target
Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92].

The key support of the medium-term uptrend is now in the zone of [28.38
- 27.48]. To enter new purchases, I recommend expecting the price
correction down to the support zone and looking for a buy pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 03.06.2020][1]

Let us analyze the shorter timeframe. The short-term uptrend is
developing. The price has reached Gold Zone 4 [37.54 – 37.17].

Until this resistance is broken out, there may start a correction. In
case of a correction, the price will test the strong supports,
Additional Zone [35.13 - 34.91], and Intermediary Zone [32.88 – 32.43].
I recommend entering new buy trades in the support zones according to
the pattern with a target at the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) high.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 03.06.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [35.13 - 34.91]. TakeProfit: 37.28. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [32.88 - 32.43]. TakeProfit: 37.28. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

In the middle-term chart, gold is trading in the correction down in the
middle-term uptrend. The correction target is to test Target Zone
[1673.6 – 1664.4].

Yesterday, I suggested selling gold. According to the trading
recommendations, there should be entered a sell trade. I recommend
holding the trade down to the target.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 03.06.2020][4]

The short-term gold trend is down. Yesterday, traders were testing
Intermediary Zone [1744.0 – 1739.4]. This resulted in the sellers’
activity, and the bears are in control now. The price has been down by
230 points.

The price is now testing the intraday support Additional Zone [1722.3 –
1720.0]. If it is broken out, the price will continue moving down with
the target at the low of last week.

The major sell target is the lower Target Zone [1673.6 — 1664.4].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 03.06.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:  **

Hold down sell trades entered at level 1736.6. TakeProfit: Target Zone
[1673.6 - 1664.4]. StopLoss: 1762.0

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EUR/USD broke out Target Zone 2 [1.1109 – 1.1091] yesterday. The
next target in the medium-term uptrend is Target Zone 3 [1.1291 –
1.1273].

The trend key support is now in the zone of [1.1032 — 1.1013].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 03.06.2020][7]

The price broke out the resistance Gold Zone [1.1152 – 1.1143]
yesterday, the US session closed the price above. The EUR/USD is now
approaching the next target Target Zone 2 [1.1252 – 1.1234].

For the next few days, I recommend expecting a correction and entering
new purchases in the strong support zones, Additional Zone [1.1168 -
1.1164] and Intermediary Zone [1.1123 – 1.1114]. The target to take some
of the profits could be set at the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) high.

It will be relevant to sell the eurusd if the price breaks through the
low hit at the US session yesterday and consolidates below AZ.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 03.06.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1168 - 1.1164]. TakeProfit: 1.1211, Target Zone 2 [1.1252 - 1.1234]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1123 - 1.1114]. TakeProfit: 1.1211, Target Zone 2 [1.1252 - 1.1234]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 03.06.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_030620_1.png?w=30&s=5ac431da147bda08bbe412fb86cc688a
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_030620_2.png?w=30&s=91c42de0e41d5c27c43cc30c19beddf6
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_030620_1.png?w=30&s=0d6d61e0b7b8fe7b260fe191859cfb4d
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_030620_2.png?w=30&s=171c5f188d9b5d1d3a14769f0487c01e
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_030620_1.png?w=30&s=b67378daabfe3fc5f2dca0aa803fd707
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_030620_2.png?w=30&s=4590ce03928f1cb531755c91fd4ff4f7
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-03062020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-03062020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_84.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=628157df113d4fc008e6f1e4e556d533