+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-03"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 03.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 03.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 3, 2020

June 3, 2020

Euro is looking at the marketsDmitri Demidenko

## Forex and stock market trends signal a soon recovery of global and
European economies

What came first, the chicken or the egg? Do markets reflect what is
going to be in the economy, or the economy is driving the markets in a
particular direction? When I look at the S&P 500, I see a soon V-shaped
rebound. This is what the markets signal, although the Fed’s officials,
the members of the Congressional Budget Office, and numerous experts say
that the US GDP recovery will take a long time. When I look at the GBP,
I see at least the extension of the Brexit deadline or even a soon
signing of the trade deal between the UK and the EU. Although Boris
Johnson’s government is unwilling to follow either of the scenarios.

Yes, euro gains back its old benefit, the hope that the Brexit matters
will be settled down easily. The divorce, in any sense, is not an easy
matter. Divorce is associated with significant financial costs in
exchange for independence and peace of mind. The divorce of the UK and
the EU is no exception. Both sides will suffer, and most of the negative
was priced in the sterling’s quotes until recently. Once [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s
gained back the hope for the Brexit deal, they have started exiting the
GBP/USD shorts. According to Bloomberg's source familiar with the
matter, the European Union will try to convince Boris Johnson to forge a
compromise later this month in an attempt to stop the U.K. from breaking
away from the bloc without a trade deal.

The stronger pound supports the euro. The euro-dollar risk reversals
have entered the positive area for the first time since March, which
signals the [EUR/USD][1] market is bullish.

 **Dynamics of EUR/USD risk reversals**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 03.06.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The euro’s rise is natural as the US stock indexes are rallying up
although many controversial facts. There is a risk of the second wave of
COVID-19, there are mass protests in the USA, the US-China trade
relations are still tense. Moreover, the White House resumed the case of
digital taxes in the EU in relation to US companies, which may result in
new tariffs against the European Union. The growth of the global risk
appetite has sent the USD down to its three-month low, and the sharks of
Wall Street suggest that the greenback’s uptrend is about to turn down.
According to Citigroup, as the Federal Reserve slashed interest rates to
near zero and the potential growth of US GDP is lower than in the rest
of the world, the dollar enters a bear market that should last from 5 to
10 years. A similar opinion is shared by Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, and
Deutsche Bank, which recommend their clients to reduce the share of the
US dollar in the portfolios.

The euro is also supported by the talks that Germany is to boost the
fiscal stimulus by €50 billion - €100 billion and the hopes that the ECB
will expand the QE size by another €500 billion. I think these factors
have been already priced in the[ EUR/USD][1]. If the ECB is not fast
enough to take more stimulating measures or gives less than the market
expects, the market can experience the same turmoil that was in March,
when Christine Lagarde recklessly stated that the European Central Bank
is not responsible for controlling the spreads of the debt market. The
first targets for the euro longs at [$1.115][3] and [$1.12][4] have been
already reached, the next upside targets at [$1.122 and $1.124][5] are
close. The ECB meeting should allow taking some of the profits.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Euro is looking at the markets][8]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/euro-risk-reversal-03-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=af70940a6e179b9aa2ba5efdacdab560
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/euro-discourages-bears/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/euro-took-a-wise-decision/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-is-tinkering-at-the-margins/
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-is-looking-at-the-markets&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-is-looking-at-the-markets&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-03-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=d582303e2d63991ca2593c0981c71f2d