+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-15"
description = "Pound price forecast 15 March 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 15 March 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-15

2021-03-15

Fed to lend Pound a helping hand. Forecast as of 15.03.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

While the pandemic has had a considerable impact on the UK economy, the
Bank of England and the OECD are optimistic. This is what keeps
[GBPUSD][1] from a deep correction. How will the pair react to central
bank meetings? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading
plan.

## Weekly pound fundamental forecast

The British pound rattled its buyers' nerves, falling to a month low
against the US dollar amid a rapid recovery of the US economy, a rapid
rally in Treasury yields, and the Fed's unwillingness to stop it. At the
same time, as soon as the world stock indexes went up, the [GBPUSD][1]
bulls have perked up. Moreover, the UK GDP did not sink as deeply as
expected. All these factors help the sterling to stay relevant.

In January, the British economy shrank only by 2.9% due to the
healthcare and construction sectors' success, in contrast with the 4.9%
reduction proposed by Bloomberg. The main headwind was created by the
non-manufacturing sector and exports, which decreased by 40.7% due to
Brexit. At the same time, the successful vaccination campaign allows
expecting the explosive growth of GDP during the rest of the year. The
OECD raised its forecast for the UK economy for 2021 and 2022 by 0.9%
and 0.6% pp. The Bank of England believes that the British economy will
be able to recover by early 2022.

### OECD forecasts for the world's leading economies

 _Source: Financial Times._

At a meeting on March 18, Andrew Bailey and the MPC officials will
decide what to do with rising sovereign bond yields, the pound
strengthening, and market pricing that suggests the interest rate will
increase by 50 bps over the next three years.

I do not think that the 2% and 4% sterling growth against the US dollar
and the euro since the beginning of the year is a headache for the Bank
of England. The trade-weighted British pound is not growing so fast and
is still far from its pre-2016 referendum levels. Moreover, the US high
domestic demand allows counting on the recovery of UK exports. According
to the OECD, the United Kingdom, Canada, Mexico, and Brazil will be
among the main beneficiaries of Joe Biden's $1.9 trillion fiscal
stimulus plan.

### US fiscal stimulus impact on global growth

 _Source: Financial Times._

The US Treasury yields growth does not bother the Fed, but it worries
other central banks whose economies are not recovering as quickly as in
the US. Nevertheless, the BoE is optimistic about the future and
believes that the moment will come when it will not have to be troubled
due to the increase in the British debt market rates. In this regard, I
do not expect drastic changes in monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) and the Bank of
England's dovish stance at the March 18 meeting, which should play into
the sterling hands.

### Weekly [GBPUSD][1] trading plan

How will dollar pairs react to the outcome of the FOMC meeting? In my
opinion, Jerome Powell understands that by remaining indifferent to the
rally in Treasury yields, he only whets the traders' appetite. I expect
that the Fed chairman will pay more attention to tightening financial
conditions, which will stabilize the US debt market's situation and halt
the greenback rally. In this situation, [GBPUSD][1] longs will become
relevant on a breakout of resistance at level 1.4 or if the bears are
unable to lower prices below levels 1.382-1.384.



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true