+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-08"
description = "Pound price forecast 8 April 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 8 April 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-08

2021-04-08

Pound: haste would make waste. Forecast as of 08.04.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Sterling buyers are losing patience. Speculators added up to the biggest
net longs on the British pound among the G10 currencies, and as soon as
the bad [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) was published, they rushed to get rid of them. Let us
discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan for [GBPUSD][1]

## Fundamental pound forecast for nine months

Hardly had the pound bulls smelled the trouble when the [GBPUSD][1]
crashed to the bottom of figure 37 and the [EURGBP][2] performed the
best [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) rally since 2021. The UK changed its guidance on using the
Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, recommending people aged 18-29 years
alternative drugs after the European Medicines Agency announced a link
between rare cases of blood clots in the brain and the AstraZeneca
vaccine. The hottest trade of the current year was under attack, which
immediately affected the sterling.

Reduced political risks after the Brexit agreement at the end of 2020
and a quick vaccination process in the UK made the pound one of the
Forex favorites. Even the rapid rise in US Treasury yields and the
associated strengthening of the dollar in March could not scare the
GBPUSD bulls, which recovered most of the previous month's losses in
early April. Alas, the real scale of the catastrophe due to Brexit is
being hushed up by Boris Johnson's government, while the high speed of
the vaccination process can be described by the expression "haste makes
waste".

Official London has decided to disregard the vaccine manufacturers'
recommendations for the 21-day interval between the first and second
injection. Even though 37.4 million people, or 56% of the UK population,
received at least one injection, compared with 50.9% of the US
population and 8.6% of the EU, the number of complete vaccinations in
the UK is lower than in the USA.

### Vaccination rate in different countries

 _Source: Nordea Markets._

It would seem that nothing problematic has happened, the first stage
will be followed by an equally fast second, but in reality, everything
is different. Due to public distrust of AstraZeneca, the main vaccine
that official London was focusing on, and due to a significant reduction
in the supply of doses to medical institutions in April, the idea of ​​a
sterling rally against the backdrop of rapid vaccination process is
fragile like a house of cards. According to ING, speculators hold the
largest longs on the pound among the G10 currencies. Its sales on April
6-7 are understandable due to recent [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/).

Political risks have not completely disappeared either. The Office for
Budget Responsibility predicts Brexit will cut UK GDP by 0.5% in 2021
and by 4% in the long term. Exports will be approximately 15% lower than
if the country remained in the EU. The independent assessment allowed
the opposition Labour Party to take shots at ruling Conservatives.
According to the Labour, Johnson's government shows extreme arrogance in
refusing to order an economic assessment of the Brexit impact. The
cabinet is alarmingly relaxed over the suffering of British exporters.

### [GBPUSD][1] trading plan for nine months

In my opinion, the UK will be able to overcome the difficulties with
vaccines. The opening of the British economy at the end of April with
the following rapid growth will contribute to the [GBPUSD][1] rally
towards 1.44 by the end of December. At the same time, I would not rush
to buy the pair until the GBPUSD price consolidates above 1.39.





## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURGBP&returnUrl=true