+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-08"
description = "US dollar price forecast 8 April 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 8 April 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-08

2021-04-08

Dollar is to make concessions. Forecast as of 08.04.2021Dmitri Demidenko

A compromise between the White House and the representatives of large
corporations on the new tax payments could result in the continuation of
the Treasury yields rally. If so, the euro bears could go ahead. Let us
discuss the Forex outlook and make up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

The widening foreign trade deficit amid the increase in imports usually
means the economy’s overheating. However, the Fed and the US
administration seem to be unwilling to manage the situation. In
February, the US trade deficit reached a record high of $71.1 billion.
Nevertheless, Joe Biden continues to put forward the idea of a new $ 2.3
trillion stimulus, and the Fed believes its current interest rates are
at the right place. Such a position of the authorities calms down
financial markets, allowing the [S&P 500][2] to hit the new all-time
highs. However, it may not support the [EURUSD][1] bulls.

### Dynamics of US trade balance



 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

The widening of the US twin deficit was one of the main arguments of the
bearish USD forecasts for 2021. Despite the greenback's successful
start, some banks and investment companies still hold a bearish outlook
for the dollar. For example, Deutsche Bank still believes that the euro
will rise to $1.25 by June and to $1.3 by the end of December. Despite
the short-term bearish sentiment, Goldman Sachs expects [EURUSD][1] to
rally to 1.21 and 1.28 over the next 3 and 12 months. Even Citi, which
surprised Forex analysts by its forecast suggesting the greenback should
weaken by 20%, doesn’t abandon the former trading ideas, claiming that
the USD long-term outlook remains bearish.

On the other hand, BofA Merrill Lynch bets on the growth gap between the
USA and the euro area and expects the euro-dollar to go down to 1.15 by
December. Commonwealth Bank of Australia suggests that the [EURUSD][1]
should soon reach level 1.17 as the number of new coronavirus cases is
growing in Europe, and the EU is lagging behind the USA in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of
vaccination rate.

Some analysts say the further euro-dollar trend depends on the Fed’s
reaction to US inflation growth. Based on the minutes of the FOMC March
meeting, the US central bank believes that the risk of high inflation is
almost equal to the risk of low inflation. Several Committee members
noted that supply disruptions could lead to higher consumer prices than
expected. Others said that the factors that had hampered PCE in the past
would soon create new pressures on inflation.

I must say the [S&P 500][2] would hardly have broken through its all-
time high, and the [EURUSD][1] would not have moved above 1.19 if it had
not been for the US bond market stabilization.

### Dynamics of Treasury yields

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Yes, the US bond yields have slowed down, but the new growth driver will
be the softening of Joe Biden’s tax plan. Currently, the White House
offers a tax hike from 21% to 28%. However, according to Reuters polls,
most corporations and government representatives believe there will be
reached a compromise of 25%.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

The [EURUSD][1] bulls failed to consolidate the price above 1.19, which
means their weakness. The euro still looks vulnerable. If the Treasury
yields resume the rally, the euro will move to the lower border of the
consolidation range of $1.17- $1.195. [Sales on the price rise][3] have
been profitable so far.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/euro-is-about-to-rebound-forecast-as-of-07042021/