+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-18"
description = "Euro price forecast 18 May 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 18 May 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-05-18

2021-05-18

Euro is positive. Forecast as of 18.05.2021Dmitri Demidenko

How to inspire euro buyers? One could impose import tariffs and then
cancel them. Donald Trump did the first; Joe Biden could do the second.
The [EURUSD][1] may receive a new benefit. What will be the result? Let
us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Fundamental euro forecast for six months

Silence is consent. When in February the ECB actively resented the
growth of European bond yields, threatening to increase the volume of
asset purchases under the QE (which ultimately happened), the bond
yields of the EU countries grew not as fast as now. In May, German bond
yields should return to a level above zero for the first time since
2019, and Natwest expects the interest rate to hit 0.25% by the end of
2021. What's the matter? Why is the European Central Bank silent? After
all, the ECB understands that the euro is strengthening amid the euro-
area bond yields rally.

In fact, a rally in bond yields can happen for right and wrong reasons.
Due to slow vaccinations, a worsening epidemiological situation, and
related lockdowns in the first quarter, the euro-area economy faced a
double-dip recession. Now, thanks to the vaccination campaign
acceleration (the EU plans that 70% of the adult population should
receive at least one dose of the vaccine by the end of the summer) and
the belief in the opening and the rebound of the economy, the situation
looks very different.

For the ECB, inflationary expectations and real yields are important. In
February, the first remained practically unchanged, while 10-year
Germany’s real yield grew faster than the nominal. Today, German
inflation expectations have jumped to 1.6%, the highest since 2018,
while real yield is down. Three months ago, euro-area bond yields were
rising for the wrong reasons. They were pushed up by the [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) from the
USA. In May, positive economic data in the euro area became the main
growth driver.

Yes, the inflation growth in the USA is much faster than in the euro
area. Considering the difference between the inflation rates in the US
and Europe, some analysts suggest shocking forecasts for the [EURUSD][1]
drop below parity. However, let us be reasonable. The pandemic “was an
unprecedented shock, it led to an unprecedented collapse, and we may
have an unprecedented recovery,"  Fed Vice Chair Richard Clarida said.
It is hard to argue, especially looking at the controversial reports on
US inflation and employment.

### Dynamics of [EURUSD][1] and core inflation difference



 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

Just as Treasury yields supported the US dollar in January-March,
European bond yields have strengthened the euro in April-May. But this
is not the only advantage of the euro.

The White House has begun to speculate about a reduction in tariffs set
by Donald Trump. The average US import tariffs in trade with China are
currently 19.3%, with the rest of the world - 3%. The tariffs are
clearly accelerating inflation, which reduces the likelihood that
Congress will approve the new fiscal stimulus package proposed by Joe
Biden. In April, import prices in the US jumped to 10.6%, the highest
since October 2011.

### [EURUSD][1] trading plan for six months

Lowering tariffs is good for export-led countries. Earlier, trade wars
created obstacles not only for China but for the EURUSD bulls as well. I
suppose some negative is still priced into the pair’s quotes. That is
why the reduction in tariffs could support the euro rise to the
[previously indicated targets][2] at $1.24 and $1.255.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/euro-targets-the-high-forecast-as-of-12052021/