+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-12"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (12 March 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (12 March 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=26.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-12

2021-03-12

Short-term analysis for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 12.03.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Yesterday, due to the retention of the interest rate and the QE program
by the European Central Bank, the euro price rose and approached the
resistance 1.2011 - 1.1995.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Yesterday, the short-term trend reversed up by breaking out the
Intermediary Zone 65.57 - 65.35. Now the target for purchases is the
Target Zone 68.06 - 67.61.

Now the price is correcting and returning below the resistance level of
65.74. The closest correction target is the Additional Zone 65.04 -
64.93. Support level 64.82 is located close to the margin zone.
Altogether, this is a zone for entering purchases according to the
trend.

If the Additional Zone is broken out, it will be possible to sell oil
with the target at the short-term uptrend key support 63.91 - 63.68.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Open buy positions according to the pattern in 65.04 - 64.82. TakeProfit: 66.10. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. If the price breaks out level 65.04 - 64.82, sell. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone 63.91 - 63.68. StopLoss: beyond the level of 65.05.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Major traders at the gold market held the border of the short-term
downtrend 1731 - 1726. Now the price is falling down from this level and
testing support at 1711. A breakout of support at 1711 will allow the
bears to reach the next target in the zone of 1691. A breakout of zone
1691 will lead to an update of the March low.

Gold purchases remain unprofitable as long as the Intermediary Zone is
holding. The closing of the US trading session above the Intermediary
Zone will reverse the short-term trend up. Only in this case, it will be
possible to enter long trades with the target at the upper Target Zone
1786 - 1776.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone 1731 - 1726.
TakeProfit: 1691. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Yesterday, due to the retention of the interest rate and the QE program
by the European Central Bank, the euro price rose and approached the
resistance 1.2011 - 1.1995. Despite this, traders were unable to reach
the Target Zone immediately.

Now the price is trading in the correction and is testing the Additional
Zone 1.1950 - 1.1946. Just below the Additional Zone is the support
level 1.1937. Together, the AZ + the support level form an area for
entering long trades according to the new uptrend with the target at
yesterday high.

If the support level 1.1937 is broken out, then a correction in the
trend border 1.1910 - 1.1902 will occur.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Open buy positions according to the pattern in in the zone of 1.1950 - 1.1937. TakeProfit: 1.1989. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. If the price breaks out the level 1.1937, sell. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone 1.1910 - 1.1902. StopLoss: beyond the level of 1.1950.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-12032021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-12032021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus