+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-07"
description = "BTCUSD. Халвинг и курс биткоина. Обсуждаем главные мифы на рынке. Продолжение."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "BTCUSD. Халвинг и курс биткоина. Обсуждаем главные мифы на рынке. Продолжение."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 7, 2020

May 7, 2020

BTCUSD. Main market myths. Part 2.Mikhail Hypov

##  **BTCUSD. Actual scenario. Fundamental and technical analysis: Trend
analysis and volume analysis.**

In my previous analytical article I started busting the current market
[myths][1] and promised to make a forecast for Bitcoin before and after
halving.

I’ve been dealing with cryptocurrencies for many years already and I
know how a big player usually behaves. The first thing a good
manipulator does is create “rich soil”: information noise and unipolar
expectations in most market participants.

The [hype ][1]around Bitcoin halving and the dollar’s devaluation is a
good example of that.

Next, a manipulator needs to warm the market. Huge money is invested in
the right direction to confirm information noise with the “right”
movements on the charts.

These two points make up the market state a manipulator needs and
provoke Panic Buy.

A big player’s mood can be easily detected on one-minute time frames.

![LiteForex: BTCUSD. Халвинг и курс биткоина. Обсуждаем главные мифы на
рынке. Продолжение.][2]

The chart above reflects 2 moments. The first big purchase started on
the 15-minute time frame in the morning on 28th April, Greenwich Time,
when the market was standing still. The manipulator bought out sellers’
orders and made room for growth. The market reacted unwillingly to that
provocation. Most participants’ activity was very low, but eventually
the crowd started moving upwards as the big player had placed a lot of
orders to buy and thus lent support from below. The counter force showed
up on the night of 28th April. Another big player bet on Bitcoin’s fall.
The volume was big, but the price remained where it was. It means that
two titans were fighting for the market direction. The seller lost the
fight and the price went up (the second red ellipse in the volume
indicator on the chart above).

The bullish manipulator made an insurance shot on 29th April when
bearish orders were removed again and buyers’ orders were supported. I
marked these 3 cases with red ellipses. These three unremarkable cases
speak loud of the manipulator’s intentions. It means that the
manipulator’s money and positions are located in the area of 7,700 –
8,000.

![LiteForex: BTCUSD. Халвинг и курс биткоина. Обсуждаем главные мифы на
рынке. Продолжение.][3]

After that unconditional victory, Bitcoin’s price soared by over $1,000
within just 24 hours (the chart above). Any attempts to strike back were
beaten off severely. It is confirmed by the candlesticks with long
shadows below that formed at almost the same level. I’ve marked them
with red circles in the chart above. The manipulator masters technical
analysis and protects one and the same level by creating a channel and
attracting the crowd. It will finally help the manipulator to beat off
sellers’ attacks.

So, who is this powerful manipulator able to push Bitcoin’s rate for so
long and break other solid market participants?

The answer is obvious: Bitfinex! Its direct connection with Tether was
proved long ago. Bitfinex was accused of manipulations using Tether in
2018 and 2019.

To prove it, you don’t need to be a detective or SEC’s agent. Just have
a look at the emission of USDT.

![LiteForex: BTCUSD. Халвинг и курс биткоина. Обсуждаем главные мифы на
рынке. Продолжение.][4]

The data on Tether coins issued in April and early May is in the table
above. The source of information is [Whale_alert][5].

So, Tether issued almost 2 billion USDT in 1 month, which is a record
value. In general, it doesn’t look suspicious as USDT is the most traded
stablecoin in the cryptocurrency market. But not a single USDT has been
burned since April.  It just can’t happen if parity needs to be kept.
Demand can’t be constantly growing: someone will want to sell USDT to
convert money to a fiat currency, even more so because USDT is very
popular in the cryptocurrency world. The nature of stablecoins implies
their peg to a fiat analogue. Tether is pegged to the USD. Demand for
stablecoins isn’t stable. In order to keep the 1 to 1 parity between
Tether and the dollar, the number of USDT must change all the time.

This process can be easily tracked if we look at other stablecoins, such
as BUSD, PAX, HUSD, or USDC. [Whale_alert][5] shows emissions and
burning too.

![LiteForex: BTCUSD. Халвинг и курс биткоина. Обсуждаем главные мифы на
рынке. Продолжение.][6]

Have a look at the screenshot above. First, demand for HUSD fell and the
cryptocurrency was burned; then someone wanted to buy another 1,000,000
HUSD and new coins were issued.

Another argument which supports the theory that Bitcoin price is
manipulated through USDT appears when we check Bitcoin to Tether rate on
the days of USDT emission.

![LiteForex: BTCUSD. Халвинг и курс биткоина. Обсуждаем главные мифы на
рынке. Продолжение.][7]

I’ve marked the emission dates with the blue dotted line in the chart
above. There were no strong price drawdowns on any of the 17 days when
the emission took place. What’s more, the biggest emission of USDT,
equivalent to $0.5 billion, occurred on 28th and 29th April, on the eve
of the biggest growth. This situation is marked with the red circle.

USDT hasn’t been backed by real dollars since 2019 and actually Tether
can print as much “funny money” as they want. So, a new market bubble
may appear.

Tether’s and Bitfinex’ motives are understandable: Bitcoin and other
cryptocurrencies look “low-key” now when even global corporations’
securities backed by real assets have gone cheap.

The cryptocurrency market saw a big capital outflow during the crisis.
So, [cryptocurrency exchange](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/best-cryptocurrency-exchange/)s face a big outflow of clients, and Bitfinex
is no exception.

Other trading platforms, mining pools and producers of mining equipment
benefit from Bitcoin’s growth too. That’s why I wouldn’t blame solely
Bitfinex. Tether is just a tool for manipulations here.

Also, remember that mining rewards will be cut two times after Bitcoin
halving. Miners and the whole mining sector will suffer the most.
Probably, the Bitcoin price must be 2 times higher to maintain the
mining sector after halving.

Now it’s time to check the charts and update our scenario.

###  **Actual forecast for BTCUSDT**

![LiteForex: BTCUSD. Халвинг и курс биткоина. Обсуждаем главные мифы на
рынке. Продолжение.][8]

Manipulator’s actions have been governed by the rules of technical
analysis. It understands that a visual chart pattern will push the crowd
towards necessary actions because most players know [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) do technical
analysis.

We remember that the big buyer started active actions on 28th April.
Since then, a flat triangle with a clear resistance line at 9,400 USDT
has been forming.  On smaller time frames, we see buyers’ support near
that level. Accumulation is taking place. They prepare the crowd for an
upward leap.

![LiteForex: BTCUSD. Халвинг и курс биткоина. Обсуждаем главные мифы на
рынке. Продолжение.][9]

On the H4 time frame, the triangle breaking target is at 11,200 USDT and
is located at the figure’s bottom. The task is to break the maximum of
the ultimate bullish wave at 10,500 USDT, at the very least. Pumping
will most likely happen in the next few days, or even hours, amid
artificial nervousness around halving.

A bullish scenario is likelier to be realized, but the manipulator’s
main role isn’t limited to this. My hypothesis is that the buyer’s
global task is to form Bitcoin’s bullish trend. If it is correct, the
manipulator will strive not to allow the price to drop below 10,000
USDT. After halving, most buyers will be fixing profits. It will be
important to follow the big player’s behaviour. If the level of 10,000
USDT is fiercely protected, then bulls can expect calmly a growth up to
14,000 USDT.

![LiteForex: BTCUSD. Халвинг и курс биткоина. Обсуждаем главные мифы на
рынке. Продолжение.][10]

This scenario is shown in the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) chart above. Its probability isn’t
too high, or else the manipulation will be obvious. SEC might wake up
and initiate a new probe. I think there might not be any further growth.
After consolidation at about 10,000 USDT, the manipulator will fix huge
profits at the expense of those who believed in growth. Thus, a giant
triangle will be drawn and its bottom will be the bullish wave of 2017.

But it’s another story.

Subscribe and keep in touch!

 _I’d like to remind you that all materials are provided for educational
purposes only. They aren’t financial advice and don’t guarantee any
profits. All trading decisions you make are your responsibility only._

* * *

Take care of yourself and your money!

Yours,

Michael @Hypov

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][11]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][12] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![BTCUSD. Main market myths. Part 2.][13]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/[bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/)-halving-and-dollar-devaluation-main-market-myths/
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=5b7220e63eeba7a0562d10e4c0c4972b
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=a26951763b5cb7149273bd323b866fcb
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=a0d935dadd6ca5e0d0385ce723ec2788
   5. twitter.com/whale_alert
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=8b7357dd639cd53d30b62462cd4aaa94
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=4a023cb46ec47afd4612f43fcba10b76
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=729639f182976ad050b6ec7f00040b74
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/BTCUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=21acc29b7764d33347119229497bc7ee
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/BTCUSD_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=683f5f11ef8376f53b969ff385d3c679
   11. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=[BTC](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/who-is-the-creator-of-bitcoin/)usd-main-market-myths-part-2&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=[BTC](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/who-is-the-creator-of-bitcoin/)usd-main-market-myths-part-2&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=516566cc970e80634c42457fee9cca2e