+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-07"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 07.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 07.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 7, 2020

May 7, 2020

Euro feels dirtyDmitri Demidenko

## ECB is doing its best to save the euro-area economy, but Germany
creates obstacles

How fast the Forex situation is changing! Just a week ago, the balance
of power in the [EUR/USD][1] was clear. After the drop in the safe-haven
demand amid the gradual reopening of the economies and the recovery of
the global GDP, the euro should have started rising versus the US
dollar. The dollar would be pressed down by the over-expanded Fed’s
balance sheet and the U.S. increasing public debt. However, after there
was announced the ruling of Germany’s constitutional court and
geopolitical risks increased, everything has turned upside down.

 **Dynamics of ECB and Fed balance sheets**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 07.05.2020][2]

 _Source: Wall Street Journal._

BofA Merill Lynch sees the [EUR/USD][1] at 1.02 in late 2020 amid weak
global economic outlook and limited power of the ECB in managing the
monetary stimulus. Société Générale notes that the dispute between the
two European supreme courts during the pandemic results in the market
uncertainty, which is a rather negative factor. Citi warns about higher
risks of the euro-area breakup, coming from not the peripheral countries
but the nucleus, as the ECB may ignore the ruling of the Constitutional
court, challenging Germany’s government.

According to the Financial Times source familiar with the inside
information, the Governing council won’t directly respond to the German
court. One of the ECB council members said that it would justify the QE
in five minutes, but the ECB didn’t have to do it. It looks as if the
ECB should report to any court at the first request when it decides to
hike the rates, for example. Another official said that the German
government and parliament should be the defendants, and the Governing
Council would continue doing everything necessary.

The decision of the German court looks ridiculous. What could justify
bond purchases better than the assistance to the countries suffered from
the pandemic? The ECB might blur the line between the monetary and the
fiscal policies, but this is because the euro-area governments, first of
all, Germany, wouldn’t spend money. The ECB is doing a hard job and is
criticized at the same time.

The currency bloc may break up, and the situation is worsened by the EC
forecasts. The European Commission says the euro-area GDP will contract
by 7.7% in 2020, it should recover by just 6.3% in 2021. Italy’s public
debt will increase from 135% to 159% of GDP, Greece’s debt will exceed
200% of GDP. However, German and the Netherlands will perform quite
well.

 **Dynamics of public debts of GDP**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 07.05.2020][3]

 _Source: Wall Street Journal._

The [EUR/USD][1] is also pressed down by Donald Trump. The U.S.
President gave Beijing two weeks to make sure whether China would meet
its commitments to increase U.S. goods purchases by $200 billion over
two years, including $77 billion in 2020. Taking into account the
problems of the Chinese economy amid the pandemic, and a decline in the
imports from the U.S. in the January-March period, the U.S. could well
impose new tariffs soon. The pair’s drop below the support at
1.077-1.0775 could become critical.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Euro feels dirty][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/fed-reserve-ecb-07-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=c43fa67017790c2ed5ed3d07647c86e3
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/debt-euro-area-07-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=3df6dcd71638667b9cc23a2d3c49f351
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-feels-dirty&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-feels-dirty&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-07-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=7447b0d41f2b97dee87b610fe7082cc3