+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-07"
description = "NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 17. Extended rules of logic for complex corrective patterns."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 17. Extended rules of logic for complex corrective patterns."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 7, 2020

May 7, 2020

NeoWave. Part 17. Extended rules of logic for complex corrections.
Exceptions to the rules.Mikhail Hypov

## Extended rules of logic for complex corrective patterns according to
Glenn Neely’s NeoWave theory. Exceptions to the rules. Identifying wave
patterns.

Dear friends!

In one of the [previous articles][1], I covered in detail basic and
extended rules of logic to analyze triangles.

If you are not familiar with the NeoWave theory, I suggest you should
read the all the articles in the NeoWave series, based on Glenn Neely’s
book Mastering Elliott Wave, starting from the first one:

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][2].

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels. ][3]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][5]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][6]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][10].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][11].

[NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][12]

[NeoWave. Part 12. Impulsions and the rules to analyze impulse wave
patterns. ][13]

[NeoWave. Part 13. Corrections. Rules to identify a correction.][14]

[NeoWave. Part 14. Triangles. Rules to identify triangles.][15]

[NeoWave. Part 15. Basic and advanced rules of logic to analyze
triangles][1].

[NeoWave. Part 16. Extended rules of logic for Flats and Zigzags.][16]

All the material in this article is based on my own cryptocurrency
trading experience and Glenn Neely’s book Mastering Elliott Wave.

Remember, I started covering rules for wave patterns in [Part 13][14] in
the NeoWave theory. In this post, I will finish explaining the rules
determining the post-corrective effects, or, differently put, the market
action following the corrective wave patterns. The post-effect after the
corrective patterns is usually more powerful than that after impulse
patterns.

I will also explain the exceptions to the extended rules of logic, as
well as peculiarities of the advanced progress label application under
the NeoWave.

### Extended rules of logic to analyze complex wave patterns ****

 **Double Combination**

A double combination will almost always end with a triangle, or during
simpler patterns, a C-wave failure. This pattern can __be completely
retraced in two cases:

  * If the double combination completes a terminal impulse with the first, third, or fifth wave extended, or other larger formation. However, in this situation, the double three combination is rarely retraced.
  * If the corrective phase following the double combination finishes with a severe C-failure or a running triangle.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 17. Extended rules of
logic for complex corrective patterns.][17]

The double combination, drawn schematically on the above chart, is
composed of the zigzag and a C-failure flat correction. The impulse
following the correction being studied (it contains green candlesticks
in the chart) concludes at the point (marked with the blue line) higher
than the beginning of the double combination. Therefore, we can assume
that this pattern will finish with a severe C-failure or a running
correction.

 **Triple combination**

This formation may consist of common or elongated flats, zigzag, and
triangles. Almost always this pattern terminates with a triangle. It
occurs in a triangle to a terminal impulse. One of the two X-waves in
this pattern may be a triangle, but this condition is not obligatory.
Almost all triple combination follow the below rules:

  * The first two corrections (the one which starts the move and the one right after the first x-wave) should not be triangles.
  * If a triple combination occurs in a triangle, it will be the largest wave of the triangle in price and probably time also.
  * A triple combination should be completely retraced if it is the extended fifth wave of a terminal impulse.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 17. Extended rules of
logic for complex corrective patterns.][18]

The above chart roughly outlines a triple combination. Two simple
corrections are a zigzag and a c-failure flat, they are not triangle as
it is required by the above rules. The most common triple combinations
are formations ending with a triangle that is displayed in the chart,
which is not retraced by the following B-wave. In our case, the next
wave finishes (the horizontal blue line) below the beginning of the
triple combination (the horizontal pink line).

 **Double three**

Double Threes are more common as B-waves in corrections, and, sometimes,
2nd waves in impulses. As it is clear from the name, the formation
consists of three major waves, and its segments may be demonstrated by
any corrective pattern that is composed of three sub-waves. Most
commonly, the segments of double threes are represented by zigzags.
Double three obey the below rules:

  * The longer is this corrective pattern, the more intensive action will be demonstrated by the next market move.
  * The impulse occurring immediately after the double three (if it is followed by the impulse wave) should be at least 161.8% of the previous impulse wave.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 17. Extended rules of
logic for complex corrective patterns.][19]

The above chart roughly outlines a double three that is composed of the
two successive zigzags with an X-wave in-between that is also a zigzag.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 17. Extended rules of
logic for complex corrective patterns.][20]

The correction being analyzed is quite extended, and so, the following
wave should feature an intensive market action. Besides, according to
the extended rules of logic, the impulse wave after the double three is
about 161.8% of the previous impulse wave.

 **Triple three**

These patterns are extremely rare to occur. If come across a double
three, the impulse move to follow should be at least __261.8% of the
previous Impulse wave (if there was one). Almost always, double and
triple threes drift slightly in the opposite direction of their last
wave.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 17. Extended rules of
logic for complex corrective patterns.][21]

The above chart roughly outlines a triple three just as an example. Note
that the first segment is a zigzag, the other two are flats. The first
X-wave is also a zigzag, the second linking wave is a triangle. In the
Elliott theory, there is a rule that the first x-wave can be any
corrective pattern, except for a horizontal triangle. The third segment
and the second wave may be virtually any corrective pattern.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 17. Extended rules of
logic for complex corrective patterns.][22]

According to the extended rules of logic, the impulse after the triple
three should be about 261.8% of the previous impulse.

### Extended rules of logic to analyze running corrections

 **Running correction**

Remember, the definition and the construction rule of a running
correction were covered in the third part of the NeoWave theory ([see
here][4]). I recommend you to refer to this article to make sure that
you remember it. I won’t repeat myself here and describe the post-
effects of this type of wave pattern.

 **Common running correction**

The movement to follow a running correction must __be the extended wave
of an impulse pattern or __an elongated C-wave of a flat or zigzag. The
Impulse wave after a running correction should be more than 161.8% of
the previous Impulse wave; frequently it is 261.8% or more. Such
corrections rarely develop into a double or triple three.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 17. Extended rules of
logic for complex corrective patterns.][23]

The above chart roughly outlines a flat. As the C-wave breaks through
the channel borders drawn along with the high and the low of wave A,
this correction is running.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 17. Extended rules of
logic for complex corrective patterns.][24]

The movement following the running correction is the extended wave of an
impulse. As for the length of the impulse after the running correction,
it falls in the range between 161.8% and 261.8% of the previous impulse.

 **Double three running correction**

When it is developing, this pattern is hardly ever interpreted
correctly. Most analysts ignore the most important aspect of correct
defining a double three running correction. It is the strict adherence
to the wave structure.

Double three running patterns indicate the strong power of the larger
trend, so they can be in the position of the fourth wave, followed by
the extended fifth wave. The move after a double three running
correction must __be impulsive. This impulsion should exceed 161.8% or
even 261.8% of the previous impulse wave.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 17. Extended rules of
logic for complex corrective patterns.][25]

The above chart displays a double three running correction. It is a
running correction, because its final segment goes beyond the channel's
borders, drawn along with the extreme points of the first segment.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 17. Extended rules of
logic for complex corrective patterns.][26]

According to the extended rules of logic, double three running
corrections indicated a strong power of a larger trend. So, the impulse
after this pattern should be between 161.8% and 261.8% of the previous
impulse wave.

 **Triple three running correction**

This is the pattern most difficult to work with, and it is extremely
rare. If you still come across such a correction, the following impulse
should be at least 261.8% of the previous impulse wave.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 17. Extended rules of
logic for complex corrective patterns.][27]

As the final segment of the triple three is beyond the high and the low
of the first segment, this correction is running.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 17. Extended rules of
logic for complex corrective patterns.][28]

Like in the case with the common triple three, the extended rules of the
logic state that the impulse move after the triple three running
correction is 261.8% of the previous impulse wave.

### Exceptions to the rules

It is important to note that if the pattern under study doesn’t meet all
the requirements for impulsions and correction, it doesn’t mean that the
interpretation is completely wrong. Most commonly, there are minor
errors, for example, not exact identification of the beginning and the
end of the sub-waves within the pattern. It is especially acute for the
rules of logic. Multiple rules can be violated, although this is
extremely rare.

The violation of rules can be accepted in the following cases:

  * The end of a multiwave (I will cover multiwaves in the following educational articles) or a larger pattern.
  * The wave finishes with either an expanding or a contracting triangle.
  * The formation being analyzed is the fifth wave or the C-wave of a terminal pattern (diagonal triangle) of a larger degree.

There is a principle in the NeoWave theory that states that violation of
one of the important rules signals that the pattern currently unfolding
is a terminal pattern or a triangle. However, not more than one rule can
be violated, and only in one of the above cases.

It should also be noted that the reasons resulted in the violation of
one rule quite often result in the appearance of another rule.

Let us assume that there is not observed the rule that states that no
part of the third wave in an impulse should break the 2-4 trendline,
that is this trendline is broken. Therefore, we can assume that there is
currently forming a terminal impulse wave, which is the reason why the
2-4 trendline is broken through.

If the thrust out of the triangle doesn’t stop at the level of the
triangle timezone, we can presume that there is forming a non-limiting
triangle or a terminal pattern.

So, that is all I wanted to write about the extended rules of logic.

###  **Identifying wave patterns**

I covered the wave patterns under the NeoWave in the previous articles,
as well as explained the basics of structure labels at the beginning of
the NeoWave series, see [Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on
Polywaves and Structure Label][3]s.

Based on the retracement rules, analyze the chart until there is at
least one wave with only an ":L5" or ":L3" (or both) attached. Once an
":L5" or ":L3" has been identified, the pattern isolation procedures can
be initiated:

  1. From the far left of your chart, begin a forward ****search for the first wave which contains only an ":L5" or an ":L3" or both. When you have found the first occurrence, circle the end of that wave it will probably be the end of an Elliott pattern.
  2. After the wave pattern completes, there is often quite a strong price move in a short period of time. This condition could be used as an additional signal that the circled wave is the final segment of an Elliott pattern.
  3. From the circled point, move backward three ****Structure labels. If that new wave contains only one label and ****it is one of the following, ":F3”, "x:c3”, ":L3”, ":s5” or ":L5", you may have found the beginning of an Elliott Wave pattern. Circle the beginning of the wave labeled “:F3”. If it is “x:c3”, “:L3”, or “:L5”, circle the end of the wave.
  4. If the third wave back possesses more than one structure label or the single structure label which it does possess is not one of those listed above, continue moving backward one wave at a time until you find a wave with a single Structure possibility which is one of those listed above.
  5. Next, you need to count the waves making the formation. If the number is even, then continue the search for a suitable wave with the label “:F3”, “x:c3”, “:L3”, “:s5” or “:L5”. If the pattern contains an odd number of waves, as it is required by all Elliott patterns
  6. Next, return to the ":L5" or ”:L3" you most recently circled; then, move forward in time until you get to the next wave which is labeled with only an ":L5" or ":L3" (or both) and repeat the process described in steps 1 and 2. If there is not another ":L5" or ":L3" to work with, you need to verify and compact the pattern, I will describe later [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) do it.

When you repeat this process, frequently a high or low is found, which
has already been marked at the previous stages of analysis. That means
the current pattern actually began at the previously dotted point. Or
the previously dotted point is the end of a compacted wave group which,
as a whole, is the same degree as the current ":L5" or ":L3". The
compacted pattern will eventually become an integral part of a larger
pattern terminating with the ":L5" or ":L3".

If the current ":L5" or ":L3” occurs immediately after a dotted point,
not enough waves occurred between the points to create an Elliott
pattern. Therefore, the base structure of the dotted point should be
used for grouping waves. Usually, it is clear which of the circumstances
is unfolding in the current situation.

### Special conditions

When in the process of simplifying Structure lists, if you find a
compacted pattern's price action exceeding its own beginning before it
terminates, the base structure of the compacted pattern is obviously
corrective, no matter what the basic rules of logic suggest. Therefore,
you should apply those rules in such a case. You should simply retain
the compacted patterns base structure instead. When trying to integrate
these special compacted patterns with surrounding market action, use the
position rules that I will cover in the next article. They will help you
decide if only the base structure of the compacted pattern is required
or if a position indicator is necessary.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 17. Extended rules of
logic for complex corrective patterns.][29]

Let us see an Elliott pattern isolation process on an example. Using the
retracement rules, we have determined that it is necessary to add an
“:L3” to the structure list of wave marked with a dot. Remember, the
retracement rules are covered in the articles from the first through
eleventh parts in the NeoWave series. You can refer to the links at the
beginning of this article. According to the algorithm of pattern
isolation, I circle the end of this wave.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 17. Extended rules of
logic for complex corrective patterns.][30]

Next, we subsequently determine the structure labels of the waves before
the “:L3”. Next, there are waves marked as “:sL3”, “:c3”, “:c3” and
“:F3”.

From the circled point, we move backward three structure labels. As this
wave is marked “:F3”, we are likely to have found the beginning of the
wave pattern.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 17. Extended rules of
logic for complex corrective patterns.][31]

We circle the beginning of the “:F3” wave. As there is an odd number of
waves, the pattern isolation procedure is complete.

In the next article, I will cover several interesting topics associated
with the rules of complexity and balance and the principles of the wave
combination. I also explain the notion of energy rating.

Subscribe and be the first to read the most up-to-date materials!

* * *

Take care of yourself and your money!

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][32]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][33] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![NeoWave. Part 17. Extended rules of logic for complex corrections.
Exceptions to the rules.][34]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-15-basic-and-advanced-rules-of-logic-to-analyze-triangles/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b/
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a/
   11. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-10-retracement-rule-6-conditions-b-c-and-d/
   12. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-11-retracement-rule-7/
   13. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-12-impulsions-and-the-rules-to-analyze-impulse-wave-patterns/
   14. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-13-corrections-rules-to-identify-a-correction/
   15. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-14-corrections-triangles-rules-to-identify-triangles/
   16. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-16-extended-rules-of-logic-for-zigzags-and-flat-corrections/
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/06.05.2020/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=3cb9589fe59871a56531fc52082c6f2a
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/06.05.2020/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=303bbee11b90f7a5f086aad532c10bd5
   19. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/06.05.2020/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=e142305a8da3f27579be7db885c406af
   20. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/06.05.2020/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=a5bc95c1ab0f339b6a46a581bc7cc2ec
   21. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/06.05.2020/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=ea8c60ecd6b48fee580754c7b2b39934
   22. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/06.05.2020/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=e8052ba27e06f0735cd99825cecbdb85
   23. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/06.05.2020/BTCUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=cbda16674c9e60618718657c5222be2a
   24. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/06.05.2020/BTCUSD_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=b7d5ef166ac56df7df3e2058dc45fb64
   25. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/06.05.2020/BTCUSD_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=db4c3fd833ee40c41d39bfaaf79666b1
   26. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/06.05.2020/BTCUSD_hypov_10.jpg?w=30&s=2862d5592f7bc1e057026c4e652c98f6
   27. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/06.05.2020/BTCUSD_hypov_11.jpg?w=30&s=7e182c8e145c4f8318bdb3783757e170
   28. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/06.05.2020/BTCUSD_hypov_12.jpg?w=30&s=bfc51a3aefd33ac7ec2be453c952f4f4
   29. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/06.05.2020/BTCUSD_hypov_13.jpg?w=30&s=02e92fec5f82e6836c8dfed9f31efeed
   30. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/06.05.2020/BTCUSD_hypov_14.jpg?w=30&s=30948922e8b373df6dde095d2bb602b9
   31. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/06.05.2020/BTCUSD_hypov_15.jpg?w=30&s=f38cb5434b63d92e863cc02b4de87dc1
   32. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-17-extended-rules-of-logic-for-complex-corrections-exceptions-to-the-rules-2020-05-07&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   33. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-17-extended-rules-of-logic-for-complex-corrections-exceptions-to-the-rules-2020-05-07&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   34. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/06.05.2020/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=b9cba8a4b5628bf0f4b7d7be23e65970