+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-16"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (16 February 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (16 February 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-16

2021-02-16

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 16.02.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Today the primary target for the short-term euro purchases entered last
week was reached. The February 11’s high has been updated.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil bulls are trying to consolidate the price above Target Zone 5 [59.82
- 59.31]. If successful, the next growth target will be Target Zone 6
[64.92 - 64.41].

The short-term trend is up. Yesterday, traders consolidated the oil
price above Target Zone 4 [59.51 - 59.05]. The next growth target is
Gold Zone 4 [61.54 - 61.32].

Strong support zone, in which it is profitable to look for new purchases
today, are:

  1. Additional Zone [59.64 - 59.53].

  2. Intermediary Zone [58.51 - 58.28].

To work in the correction, wait for the breakout of level 58.28 and
consolidation below. In this case, it will be possible to place Take
Profit for sales in the Intermediary Zone.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [59.64 - 59.53]. TakeProfit: 60.71. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [58.51 - 58.28]. TakeProfit: 60.71. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

The medium-term gold downtrend continues. Its main target is Target Zone
2  [1759 - 1749]. Last week, traders did not manage to break out the
resistance zone [1840 - 1830]. It is profitable to hold sell trades
entered in the resistance zone and take a part of the profits at
February's low.

The chart of a shorter timeframe shows that gold traders found support
around level 1810. However, the short-term trend is down, so selling is
a priority in this situation.

A pattern to open gold short trades was formed last week. Hold sell
trades according to the pattern, or open new ones after a false breakout
of the February 12’s high with a stop above February 11’s high. The
target is Target Zone [1775 - 1765].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Hold sales entered according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1845 -
1840]. TakeProfit: 1785, Target Zone [1775 - 1765]. StopLoss: 1848.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Yesterday, the EURUSD bulls tried to break out the last week's high -
level 1.2149. While this level is being held, it is profitable to look
for sales in the medium-term chart since the medium-term is down. The
target for sales will be Target Zone 2 [1.1981 - 1.1962].

Today the primary target for the short-term euro purchases entered last
week was reached. The February 11’s high has been updated. The uptrend
will continue if traders consolidate the price above level 1.2149.

If the price closes above the level at the US session, a new target for
the week will appear - Gold Zone [1.2200 - 1.2192].

A price correction to strong supports will allow considering purchases
again. The area for searching for a buy pattern is located between the
levels [1.2110 - 1.2062].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Open short-term buy positions according to the pattern in [1.2110 -
1.2062]. TakeProfit: 1.2149. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-16022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-16022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus