+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-16"
description = "US dollar price forecast 16 February 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 16 February 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-16

2021-02-16

Dollar won’t rock the boat. Forecast as of 16.02.2021Dmitri Demidenko

All countries should unite to win the fight against the pandemic. The
world’s economies are in the same boat. Therefore, the US economy’s
strength and the Treasury yield growth is good for other economies and a
reason to buy the [EURUSD][1]. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make
up a trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

The pandemic makes people keep social distance but unites humanity.
Together we are saddened by the increase in the number of deaths and
rejoice at the success of vaccinations; we believe in a return to the
old life and economic recovery. Any attempt to act for one’s own
selfishness at somebody else’s expense turns into a complete failure,
which Donald Trump’s defeat in the 2020 election proved. To overcome the
COVID-19 pandemic, all countries should make an effort. If so, it is
clear why the greenback doesn’t benefit from the US strong economic data
to Treasury yield rally.

In January, the US debt market rates surged amid the ‘blue wave,’ and
the US dollar strengthened. By mid-February, the U.S. Treasury 10-year
yield has exceeded 1.25%, reaching the highest level since March 2020.
Nonetheless, the greenback is going down. The reasons for the divergence
in the bond and foreign exchange markets are the synchronous growth of
bond rates in most of the world's major economies. The decline in the
number of new coronavirus cases, vaccinations, and oil price rallies
have boosted the yields on the UK, German and other bonds.

### Dynamics of bond yields



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Investors believe in the victory over the pandemic, rapid rebound of the
global GDP; they underestimate the chance of the monetary normalization
by the world’s leading central banks, which fuels reflationary trades
and supports the stock indexes’ rally. Furthermore, the divergence
between the volatility of the US stock market and Forex is another
bearish factor for the dollar.

### Dynamics of volatility of Forex and stock market



 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

Since a significant part of Forex transactions involves the greenback,
we can say that Forex volatility is the dollar's volatility. Besides,
the end of the Donald Trump era, with its protectionism, trade wars, and
verbal interventions, reduces uncertainty and safe-haven demand. The
fact that the senators were unable to implement the idea of impeachment
of the 45th US President, supported by the House of Representatives,
pushed [EURUSD][1] up.

Euro is strengthening amid the unity of humanity, which creates the
preconditions for the development of globalization, strongly opposed by
Donald Trump. The increase in global trade is crucial for export-led
economies and the equity market. According to a Financial Times poll,
three times more [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s think that US stock indices will outperform
their European peers than vice versa. However, the [S&P 500][2] P/E is
23, and the P/E of MSCI Europe ex-UK is only 18. The underestimation may
turn into a significant potential for profit growth, which will support
the capital flow from the US markets to the European ones. If so, the
euro should continue strengthening.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

I do not think the [EURUSD][1] bulls will be discouraged by the US
strong economic data or the Treasury yield growth. When the US, euro
area, and other countries are in the same boat, the US economic
expansion is seen as the common good. Therefore, it is relevant to buy
the euro on the breakout of the resistance at $1.215, with the targets
at $1.221 and $1.225.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true