+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-18"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 18, 2020

June 18, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.06.2020Alex Rodiоnov

## Today or tomorrow, the EUR/USD buy pattern should appear or the
middle-term trend will turn down

###  **USCrude –** **oil** ****

Oil is trading in the medium-term uptrend, whose target is Target Zone 5
[41.67 – 40.92]. The best buy prices are in the trend key support zone
[31.01 – 30.11]. I suggests expecting the correction down to the support
and looking for a buy pattern there.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.06.2020][1]

The short-term market sentiment hasn’t changed since yesterday. The oil
short-term trend is up. Last week and on Monday, traders were testing
the trend key support zone Intermediary Zone [35.51 – 35.06]. The zone
hasn't been broken out, and there has formed a double bottom pattern to
buy.

For today, I suggest expecting a buy entry according to the pattern and
entering oil purchases with the target at the June’s high + Target Zone
5 [41.67 – 40.92].

It will be relevant to sell oil when the price breaks out IZ and
consolidates below.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.06.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [35.51 - 35.06].
TakeProfit: 40.00, Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

This week, there was a gold buy entry according to the false breakout
pattern. The price was corrected down to the 50% Fibonacci level, next,
it rebounded up and is now trading above the level. I recommend holding
up middle-term gold buy trades with the target at the high of May.

You can also move the buy trades to the breakeven.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.06.2020][4]

The gold local short-term trend is up. The upside target is Target Zone
[1771.3 – 1762.2]. The price is now trading between the resistance
1729.3 and the support 1719.4. To enter buy or sell trades, we need the
price to break out this trading range either upside or downside and
consolidate beyond any of the important levels.

If the downtrend starts, the sell target will be Intermediary Zone
[1698.9 – 1694.3]. The buy targets are defined above.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.06.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:  **

Hold up trades entered at level 1705.6. TakeProfit: 1764.4. StopLoss:
1687.2.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The euro-dollar is testing the key support of the medium-term uptrend at
[1.1240 – 1.1222]. Sellers cannot yet break this zone out. They may
break it out soon, and the trend should reverse down.

Any way, it is yet too early to enter medium-term trades. To buy, we
need a pattern, to sell, we need the price to consolidate below level
1.1222.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.06.2020][7]

The EUR/USD broke through the local low yesterday trading in the short-
term downtrend. The sell trades entered in Intermediary Zone [1.1312 –
1.1303] worked out.

After the low was broken through, the price has started a correction up
and is now testing the strong intraday resistance Additional Zone
[1.1257 – 1.1252]. The key resistance of the trend should be moved. The
trend key resistance zone is now at [1.1307 – 1.1298].

For today, I recommend expecting a sell pattern either in the AZ or in
the IZ and, when it emerges, selling the euro with a target at
yesterday’s low.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.06.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:   **

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1257 - 1.1252]. TakeProfit: 1.1208. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1307 - 1.1298]. TakeProfit: 1.1208. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.06.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_180620_1.png?w=30&s=0f6c62f0fc1d8e8e53b0db4b9582e1bb
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_180620_2.png?w=30&s=0a135fb90466b1beaaee186536c22880
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_180620_1.png?w=30&s=fd4ba31fcf4935747762cfa26c337158
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_180620_2.png?w=30&s=29f255799aac66f86062482200c2175e
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_180620_1.png?w=30&s=117751e66f2f138b161c84a05851772b
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_180620_2.png?w=30&s=823e73c7f05502f8539f0e3a57ad6eae
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-18062020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-18062020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_87.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=a9e3d8fd4d9a9cbe5494ef1a4e3aba5e