+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-18"
description = "GBP/USD forex forecast for 18.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "GBP/USD forex forecast for 18.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 18, 2020

June 18, 2020

Pound is playing with the shadowsDmitri Demidenko

## GBP plays a secondary role depending on the U.S. stock indexes

The world’s major currencies competing with the US dollar have been
playing the second role for a long time. Investors often ignore
fundamental data, being more interested in the trends of the US stock
indexes, which mostly affects the foreign exchange rates now. It is also
acute for the pound, which, after the referendum on the UK membership in
the EU in 2016, has often ignored the reports on the UK GDP, inflation,
or unemployment. So, what’s the difference whether it is Brexit or the
pandemic?

The longer the COVID-19 pandemic continues, the more primitive trading
strategies become. The Forex traders do not bother about macroeconomic
statistics. They just sell the greenback against a basket of major
currencies when the S&P 500 is rising and buy when the US stock market
is going down. Investors do not yet care about the divergence in the
economic expansion or monetary policies of the global central banks.
These key forex drivers will still be important, but a little later,
when the epidemic is over. That is why it looks natural that the GBP
traders have not been much scared by the UK's poor domestic data. The UK
inflation rate was down to 0.5% Y-o-Y in May, which is the worst drop
since 2016. The GDP showed the worst drop in the February-April period,
which is 3.5 deeper than that in the worst quarter during the previous
recession. The UK jobless claims soared by nearly 1.5 million. All of
this, however, doesn’t much affect the GDP value.

 **Dynamics of UK GDP**

![LiteForex: GBP/USD forex forecast for 18.06.2020][1]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

 **Forecasts for UK GDP**

![LiteForex: GBP/USD forex forecast for 18.06.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The sterling buyers are not discouraged by the lack of progress in the
UK-EU negotiations. Boris Johnson expresses optimism, claiming after the
meeting with the EU leaders that there is a good chance of striking the
Brexit deal before the end of July. However, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s realize that this
agreement will only be a shadow of that comprehensive deal promised by
the Brexit supporters in 2016. After all, the [GBP/USD][3] was trading
at 1.5 at that time, so the risk of a no-deal Brexit is likely to have
been priced in the pair’s quotes. This is likely to be the major reason
for the pound’s stability after London announced that the transition
period won’t be extended after December 31. The uncertainty has somehow
eased, and so, the sterling has been up.

Of course, the [GBP/USD][3] is much dependent on the US stock indexes
and ignores the UK domestic data, but it should still react to the
outcomes of the BoE meeting. Bloomberg's median forecast suggests that
the BoE should expand the UK QE by £100 billion to £745 billion and hold
the interest rate at 0.1%. If the interest rate goes below zero, or the
Bank of England follows the Japanese example of targeting the bond
yield, the pound bulls should be set back.

In the negative scenario, the sterling may go down to $1.2455-$1.2465,
and then, to $1.2345-$1.236. However, it is not a good idea to sell the
[GBP/USD][3] when Forex is following the S&P 500 trends. I do not think
the correction of the US stock market will be deep. Therefore, it even
may be relevant to enter buy trades on the price fall. You can do this
using the [LiteForex convenient trading services][4].

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

![Pound is playing with the shadows][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/uk-gdp-18-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=2d9581349e81aec10c515e1b0042e573
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/forecast-uk-gdp-18-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=f5126a8001bacf2ed216a1f5cee78ee5
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?go-zone=ZASdmqixF1Cnq2et7jKB-Fl4wu_-MKOB
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-is-playing-with-the-shadows&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-is-playing-with-the-shadows&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-gbpusd-18-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=ef3a3b6435d0804bcbbc0aa9eb14803b