+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-24"
description = "Diversification of reserves will hit the US dollar hard"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Diversification of reserves will hit the US dollar hard"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 24, 2020

July 24, 2020

Euro gave China a free handDmitri Demidenko

##  **Truth springs from argument, but fight does so more often**

If the Chinese say they didn’t take a thing, it means they won’t give it
back. According to Financial Times, the FBI files a new
counterintelligence case related to China every 10 hours. Beijing’s
thefts of American intellectual property are estimated at $225 to $600
billion a year. When Washington closed the Chinese consulate in Huston,
it continued smoking for a few hours: the papers meant to be burnt were
burning. We may think that China will soon outrun the USA just because
there are so many Chinese people in the world, but there are many
Indians too. Do they steal technologies, though?

![LiteForex: Diversification of reserves will hit the US dollar hard][1]

We may choose whatever ways to find our own blind alley.  Not only did
the US-China “blind cooperation” [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) lead to a big imbalance, which
somehow the US wants to correct just now. Also, it can lose the USA its
global economic leadership. The yuan will hardly replace the dollar, but
China may easily replace the greenback with the euro. That will be quite
a different story. I can only feel sorry for Donald Trump who thinks
about his Asian colleagues day and night:

> \- My husband called me Li Xiu this night...

>

> \- Melania, you should talk to him when he wakes up.

>

> \- He won’t.

![LiteForex: Diversification of reserves will hit the US dollar hard][2]

It’s so interesting to watch the culpable looking for the guilty! First,
Trump accused Jerome Powell of not willing to cut rates, which
consolidated the dollar. He said, that deprived the US of competitive
advantages. Then he accused China of the pandemic.  The president
totally forgot that the main factor in the greenback’s consolidation in
2018-2019 was his own trade wars. And the main covid problems were due
to the White House’s late reaction to the large-scale global issue. Try
saying that to the guilty one, he will immediately reply:

> \- Do I look like an idiot?

>

> \- Well, only in profile. Full face, you look like a regular asshole.

![LiteForex: Diversification of reserves will hit the US dollar hard][3]

When the US was brandishing a stick in 2018-2019, China was waiting
patiently. And I must say, it worked! Now it’s a very good time for
taking vengeance. For example, deporting Americans from Chengdu  in
retaliation for the Houston closure. Ahead of the presidential election,
Trump is praying to stock indexes, which may slump if the US-China trade
war resumes. Trump’s hands are tied. The only thing he can do is bark at
the caravan. Which keeps going.

China can take offence at the US protectionism [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), but we need to
understand that it doesn’t keep its nose clean either. The stronger
people get, the more insolent they become. China has got a perfect
opportunity to keep the White House on a short leash. And it’s not only
about stock indexes. The EU bonds may easily replace the American ones.
The more pressure Beijing gets, the higher chance of diversification is.
If the trade war made the dollar stronger, the cold war will weaken it.
Don’t be surprised when it happens.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Euro gave China a free hand][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/china-24-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=55c51b50141513a5d3734e250bd41220
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/trump-24-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=e1e245d96e766d885db8644b7ed07e02
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/camel-24-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=aacc697fb9f3caa44ed4b384fe6ade85
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=euro-gave-china-a-free-hand&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=euro-gave-china-a-free-hand&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/liteforex-blog-china-24-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=c59a41ab21d6d0d00ac713ccabc1f8ca