+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-24"
description = "Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 24, 2020

July 24, 2020

Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USDAlex Rodionov

##  **O** **il price forecast for next wee** **k: USCrude analysis**

The oil price has broken through the high of June. When the high was
updated, the price rolled back into the strong resistance zone Target
Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. Buyers can’t yet break out TZ5, although the
medium-term trend remains up.

Therefore, there could be a correction in the oil market with the target
at the trend key support.

If the price reaches Target Zone [35.54 – 34.86], I will recommend
entering new purchases according to the pattern with the target at the
high of this week.

Another scenario to buy oil is when the price breaks out TZ5 and
consolidates above. In this case, it will be relevant to buy on the
zone’s retest.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][1]

###  **[USCrude][2]Trading tips for the upcoming week: **

Buy according to the pattern in Target Zone [35.54 - 34.86]. TakeProfit:
42.22. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold** **price forecast for next wee** **k:** **XAUUSD**
**analysis** ****

The gold price has broken out Target Zone 6 [1817.2 - 1811.2] and
reached Target Zone 7 [1877.2 – 1871.2] this week. There have been no
sell signals. The gold medium-term trend is up.

Buyers are trying to break out TZ7 and consolidate the price above. The
US session has already closed the price above the zone once, we shall
wait for the second closing. If the price is consolidated above the
resistance, the next target in the uptrend will be Target Zone 8 [1937.2
— 1931.2].

The trend key support is now in the zone of [1816.3 - 1808.1]. I
recommend entering new purchases only according to the pattern after
this zone is tested.

If the price breaks through the local high today or next week, we shall
rearrange the key support down from each new high.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][3]

###  **[XAUUSD][4] Trading tips for the upcoming week:**

Buy according to the pattern in Target Zone [1816.3 - 1808.1].
TakeProfit: 1900. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **E** **uro/dollar price forecast for next wee** **k:** **EURUSD**
**analysis** ****

The EURUSD price has reached Target Zone 2 [1.1550 – 1.1532] and broken
out the resistance this week. The next target in the medium-term uptrend
is Target Zone 3 [1.1732 – 1.1714].

To enter new middle-term purchases, I suggest expecting a correction
down to the trend key support [1.1444 - 1.1425] and looking for a
reversal pattern, according to which one could enter buy trades.

There are no signals to sell the euro as of now. We could consider short
trades if the short-term turns down.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][5]

###  **[EURUSD][6]  Trading tips for the upcoming week:**

Buy according to the pattern in Target Zone [1.1444 - 1.1425].
TakeProfit: 1.1620, Target Zone 3 [1.1732 - 1.1714]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][7]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][8] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][9]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/USCrude_analysis_240720.png?w=30&s=575395488a9888c148846f287e801bf8
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_240720.png?w=30&s=9140116ee0a3e8763c66cf86a96a074f
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_240720.png?w=30&s=f53a00ab4181fb77dd15f690e13d278e
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-2020-07-24&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-2020-07-24&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/forex_trading_2.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=eebad0a09ae62301a6af8cc19e1ee833