+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-01"
description = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week February 1"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week February 1"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-01

2021-02-01

Medium-term forecast for five cryptocurrencies as of 01.02.2021Roman
Onegin

I welcome my readers!

I have prepared a medium-term cryptocurrency forecast based on Elliott
wave analysis of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS, and Ripple. I offer
trading signals for each cryptocurrency pair.

All cryptocurrency pairs covered in the article are forming the final
legs of corrective waves, which should be followed by the market rise.
The XRPUSD may have started growing in price and could provide a
powerful momentum this week.

The article covers the following subjects:

##  **Elliott wave Bitcoin analysis**

The BTCUSD market continues forming the upward impulse composed of the
sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. There is developing the final leg of the impulse,
sub-wave 5, which is also an impulse. The first four legs of sub-waves 5
have completed. There is currently unfolding wave [5]. Let us study its
structure in more detail in the eight-hour timeframe.

The chart displays wave [5], which is a simple five-wave impulse. The
sub-waves (1)-(2)-(3)-(4) have completed. The market is forming a larger
wave (5), namely, its fourth element correction 4. The corrective wave 4
has a complex structure of a triple zigzag [w]-[x]-[y]-[x]-[z]. The
second linking wave [x] must have finished, so the price should be
declining in wave [z] towards the previous low of 28900. Next, the
market should resume rising in the impulse wave 5, as it is outlined in
the chart.

### Trading plan for [BTCUSD][1] for the week:

Sell 33784.50, TP 28900.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ethereum analysis**

Like in the previous trading weeks, the ETHUSD market continues forming
a large simple zigzag A-B-C. The impulse wave A and the corrective wave
B, which is a triple zigzag, have completed. The market is moving up in
the bullish impulse wave C. At the time of writing, the four legs out of
five have completed in the C wave. Let us see the final leg of the C
wave in more detail in a shorter timeframe.

Wave [5] of C, currently unfolding, is a simple impulse
(1)-(2)-(3)-(4)-(5). Since late December 2020, the market has been
rising in the final sub-waves (5). There is forming the corrective wave
4 as a skewed triangle, as the construction lines are directed as the
main trend. The triangle should complete at a level of around 1200.00.
Next, the market should go up to level 1670.00 in wave 5, as it is
outlined in the chart.

### Trading plan **[ETHUSD][2] **for the week:

Sell 1311.73, TP 1200.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Litecoin analysis**

The LTCUSD market continues forming the global simple zigzag composed of
the sub-waves A-B-C. The sub-wave A is an impulse, the B wave is a
triple zigzag. The market is currently forming the impulse wave C. The
sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3] have completed, the corrective wave [4] is still
unfolding. Let us explore its structure in more detail in the H8
timeframe.

According to the inner structure, the corrective wave [4] is unfolding
as a horizontal contracting triangle. The first three sub-waves
(a)-(b)-(c) look complete. The price should be rising in the sub-wave
(d) to a level of 146.00. Next, the market could go down a little in the
final wave (e), as it is outlined in the chart. When the triangle
pattern completes, the LTC price could start rising to a level above the
previous high of 185.00 made by the impulse wave [3].

### Trading plan for **[LTCUSD][3]**  for the week:

Buy 131.17, TP 146.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave EOS analysis**

The current EOSUSD structure suggests the market should be forming the
global corrective wave as a bearish triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z].
In early January 2021, the market completed the second linking wave [X]
as a bullish triple zigzag (w)-(x)-(y)-(x)-(z). Next, the market
reversed and started forming the initial element of the final sub-waves
[Z]. Let us see the most recent chart section in the eight-hour
timeframe.

After the bullish linking wave [X] ended, the price has been declining
in the [Z] wave. Wave [Z] must be unfolding as a standard zigzag
composed of the three sub-waves (A)-(B)-(C). The impulse wave (A) has
completed. There is now forming the upward zigzag-shaped correction (B),
namely, its final impulse wave C. The price should be rising to a level
of 3.51, where the entire correction (B) will be 76.4% of wave (A). One
could enter long positions in the current situation.

### Trading plan for **[EOSUSD][4]**  for the week:

Buy 3.13, TP 3.51

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ripple analysis**

The [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) XRPUSD chart displays the uptrend unfolding as a global simple
zigzag A-B-C. In early November 2021, the market must have finished
forming corrective wave B as a triple zigzag, which signals the price
growth. The two small sub-waves (1)-(2) must have completed. Let us see
the most recent chart section in more detail in the eight-hour
timeframe.

After the corrective wave B completed, wave (1) completed as an impulse.
The zigzag-shaped correction (2) has also finished. Therefore, the
upward impulse wave (3) should be developing over the next few weeks.
The price should rise in sub-wave 3 to a level above the previous high
made by the linking wave [X], that is, above level 0.787. One could
enter purchases in the current situation.

### Trading plan for **[XRPUSD][5]** for the week:

Buy 0.606, TP 0.787

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-01022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-01022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus