+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-01"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (1 February 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (1 February 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-01

2021-02-01

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 01.02.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Euro is correcting to the medium-term downtrend. The target of the
correction is to test the key resistance [1.2229 - 1.2213].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The medium-term chart shows that oil is trading in the medium-term
uptrend. The growth target is Target Zone 4 [54.72 - 54.21]. Wait for a
correction to enter purchases at favorable prices.

Let's take a look at the chart of a shorter timeframe. It shows that the
short-term trend formally remains up because the Intermediary Zone
[51.66 - 51.43] was not broken out. However, according to the technical
analysis, significant highs and lows are going down in the chart. This
suggests that there is a high probability that the trend will reverse
down. To do this, the bears need to break out the key support and
consolidate below.

If the IZ is broken out and the price fixes below, look for sales
according to the pattern in strong resistances with the target at the
lower Target Zone [49.39 - 48.94].

If the bulls take control of the situation and break out the level of
53.23, buy oil with a target at the upper Target Zone 3 [55.00 - 54.53].

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy after breaking out the level of 53.23. TakeProfit: Target Zone 3 [55.00 - 54.53]. StopLoss: below the nearest local low.

  2. Sell according to the pattern after breaking out the Intermediary Zone [51.66 - 51.43]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [49.39 - 48.94]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

The medium-term chart shows that the fourth week has gone, as gold is
trading in the sideways trend between the levels of 1859 and 1818. The
price is likely to exit the flat zone upside. The medium-term buying
target is Target Zone 2 [2005 - 1994].

The short-term trend remains up. On Friday last week, the bulls updated
January 21's high, but the price failed to consolidate above that level.
As a result, a correction and a test of the new Additional Zone [1850 -
1848] occurred. The price didn't break out the zone.

Watch the reaction of traders to the test of the strong support of
Additional Zone. The target of the price growth is to update Friday's
high. The second target is to reach the Target Zone [1912 - 1902].

An alternative scenario involves sales. It will be relevant if the price
breaks out the support intermediary Zone [1825 - 1820] and consolidates
below.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Hold up medium-term purchases entered in the zone of [1859.2 - 1816.9]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [2005.8 - 1994.3]. StopLoss: 1830.

  2. Hold up short-term purchases entered in the zone of [1849 - 1820]. TakeProfit: 1875, Target Zone [1912 - 1902]. StopLoss: 1841.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Euro is correcting to the medium-term downtrend. The target of the
correction is to test the key resistance [1.2229 - 1.2213].

The appearance of a sell pattern near the trend border will allow
considering short trades with the target at Target Zone 2 [1.1981 -
1.1962].

Let's take a look at the chart of a shorter timeframe and analyze the
situation. The short-term trend is up. The target for purchases is
Target Zone [1.2229 - 1.2213].

Last Friday, an intraday buy momentum occurred, within which the
resistance level of 1.2128 was broken out. Thus, a pattern for opening
long positions was formed. Purchases according to the pattern with the
target at TZ is a priority scenario for today.

Selling the euro requires that the bears break out the support at 1.2077
and consolidate below. In this case, the trend will reverse down, and
the target will be the lower Target Zone [1.2029 - 1.2013].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy in the zone of [1.2116 - 1.2112]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.2229 -
1.2213]. StopLoss: 1.2079.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-01022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-01022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus