+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-06"
description = "US dollar price forecast 6 August 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 6 August 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-08-06

2021-08-06

Dollar is dangerous. Forecast as of 06.08.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The Federal Reserve has cornered itself and now needs to be extremely
careful not to trigger a sell-off in stocks and bonds. The market’s
reaction to the US jobs report will give a clue on further trends. Let
us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Fundamental US dollar forecast today

The higher the US stock indexes rise, the more nervous the Fed is. The
43rd record high of the [S&P 500][2] in 2021 formally resulted from
strong corporate reporting, a decline in jobless claims, and
expectations of new fiscal stimulus soon to be passed by Congress, and
the easing concerns about the Delta amid a series of optimistic studies.
However, it is a bubble based on the low rates of the US debt market. To
avoid the bubble burst, the Fed must be extremely careful with the
normalization of monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), which shakes the US dollar.

It is generally accepted that financial markets reflect the state of the
economy. If so, then the current situation in the US bond market
suggests stagflation. The flagging of stagflation is high inflation
coupled with low growth. Weak GDP growth in the near future is signaled
by a drop in the real Treasury yields to a record low. The 10-year U.S.
breakeven rate, the inflation level where returns on nominal bonds and
TIPS would be equal, is now at 2.35%. But the booming GDP growth in the
second quarter, the rapid recovery of the labor market, and all-time
highs in the PMI suggest the opposite! The danger lies in reading too
much into what’s being said by markets tightly controlled by central
banks. The market signals are distorted by the Fed, which continues to
pout the monetary stimulus into a strong economy.

According to Reuters calculations, the three-month moving average of
what is left of net Treasury issuance for [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s to buy after Fed
purchases has declined steadily this year and turned negative in July.
The central bank is the major actor in the Treasuries market, that is
why the market signals are not accurate.

### Dynamics of Treasury issuance and Fed purchases



 _Source_ _: Reuters_

The Fed has something to worry about. A hawkish tone of the FOMC members
will push up the Treasury yields and trigger a sell-off in the stock
market similar to that in February-March 2020. At the same time, the
greenback will skyrocket, which will hit the US companies supplying
goods and services abroad. Net exports have already slowed down US GDP
by 0.44% in the second quarter, and, given the trade deficit growth to a
record $ 75.7 billion in June, exports will continue to have a negative
impact on the US economy.

### Dynamics of US trade deficit

 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

What should the Fed do? The central bank should reassure the market in a
slow process of monetary normalization.

### [EURUSD][1] trading plan today

Under these conditions, I do not think that the growth of employment by
870,000 or a little higher predicted by Reuters experts will lead to a
serious drop in the  [EURUSD][1]. Bears could be encouraged to drive the
price to the zone of July’s lows 1.1775-1.1795. But next, the pair could
jump up and down immediately after the report or in the week ending
August 13. Considering the [EURUSD][1] drop ahead of the US jobs report,
weak data could send the price to 1.188 and higher.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true&language_save=true