+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-02"
description = "Euro price forecast 2 August 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 2 August 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-08-02

2021-08-02

Euro is going ahead. Forecast as of 02.08.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The divergence in the economic growth used to support the [EURUSD][1]
bears. However, much has changed in the second quarter. The euro trend
will depend on whether the euro-area economy will continue expanding as
fast as it does now. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a
trading plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

The idea to sell the fact, strong reports on the euro-area GDP and
inflation, has worked out. The [EURUSD][1] hasn’t consolidated above the
bottom of figure 19. However, there was something in the market reaction
and in the reports that made me doubt the bullish outlook for the US
dollar. By the end of the week through July 27, speculators increased
dollar net longs to the highest level since March 2020. Naturally,
exiting the trades after the FOMC meeting resulted in a rapid rally of
the euro against the dollar. By the end of the month, some hedge funds
could simply have taken profits from the long positions.

In April-June, the euro-area economy expanded by 2%, surpassing the US
and Chinese GDPs for the first time since at least the beginning of the
pandemic. Compared to the previous quarter, the US GDP grew by 1.6%, and
China's GDP - by 1.3%. At the same time, the spread of the Delta and a
sharp decrease in the rate of the vaccination company in the United
States increase the risks that the divergence in economic growth in
July-September will be an advantage for the [EURUSD][1] bulls. The
proportion of the fully vaccinated population in the EU is still lower
than in the United States (48.6% versus 49.5%), but for those who
received at least one dose, the situation is the opposite (58.8% versus
57.6%).

### Dynamics of European GDPs

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg._

### Dynamics of vaccinations in USA, EU, and UK

 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

In January-March, a slower vaccination campaign in the EU than in the
USA sent the [EURUSD][1] down to the bottom of figure 17. However, the
market turned optimistic, the EU started to catch up with the USA, and
the pair was up to 1.225. Will the euro bulls restore the uptrend amid
the successful vaccination in the euro area and the divergence in the
economic growth? Should sellers turn into buyers?

In my opinion, the most important variable in the equation has changed.
I mean the Fed’s position. Until mid-June, the central bank was patient
with the inflation acceleration. I would say overly patient. Next, the
Fed signaled a possible rate hike in 2022, which lured [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s back to
the US dollar. In July, Jerome Powell showed no fear of the Delta and
opened the door for monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) normalization.

The Fed is acting according to plan, and it is moving faster than the
ECB. According to the consensus forecast of primary dealers, the Fed
will start tapering the QE in the first quarter of 2022 and finish in
the fourth. The [EURUSD][1] will resume falling if the process of
withdrawing monetary stimulus is accelerated. And this requires
inflation to remain higher than the target longer than the Fed suggests,
and the labor market should recover faster than the central bank
forecasts.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

The bet on the US employment growth could work out already in early
August. According to Reuters experts, the July indicator will grow by
926,000, the unemployment rate will decrease from 5.9% to 5.7%, and the
average wage will grow by 3.6% Y-o-Y. Strong numbers, the expectations
of which can press down the [EURUSD][1] on the eve of an important
release and become the reason to enter shorts on the breakout of the
support at 1.1845-1.185. However, I do not rule out that the pair will
enter consolidation ahead of such an important event as the US jobs
report.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true