+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-11"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 11.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 11.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=26.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 11, 2020

August 11, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 11.08.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Big traders are trying to break out the strong resistance at Target Zone
5 [41.67 – 40.92]. They have not yet broken out the zone, so we can sell
oil in the correction.

The middle-term oil trend is still up. To enter purchases at good
prices, expect a correction down to the trend key support [37.23 –
36.61]. When the support is tested look for a buy pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 11.08.2020][1]

Let us look at the shorter timeframe to analyze the short-term trend. It
is still up. The price is now trying to break out Target Zone 5 [41.67 –
40.92] and consolidate above. If the buyers succeed, the next upside
target will be Gold Zone 5 [45.04 – 44.67].

Otherwise, the price will be corrected down to Intermediary Zone [40.33
– 40.02], where the further short-term trend will be determined.

For today, I recommend expecting a correction to IZ.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 11.08.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:**

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [40.33 - 40.02].
TakeProfit: 43.40. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Today, gold traders reached the key support of the middle-term uptrend
[1993.0 – 1984.8]. I recommend looking for a buy pattern.

If the price the support out, the middle-term trend will turn down. In
this case, we shall enter sell trades on the correction with a target in
Target Zone 2 [1911.0 — 1902.8].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 11.08.2020][4]

The gold short-term trend reversed down. The price has broken out
Intermediary Zone [2034.0 – 2030.0] and reached Target Zone [1993.0 –
1984.8].

We can draw the new trend resistance up from the new low, it is in the
zone of [2038.0 – 2033.7]. I suggest expecting the price correction down
to this resistance and enter gold sell trades with a target at today’s
low.

If the local high is broken through today, we shall move the resistance
zones following the price.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 11.08.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [2038.0 - 2033.7].
TakeProfit: 1985.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The EUR/USD is testing the key support of the middle-term uptrend at
[1.1733 – 1.1715]. I recommend entering purchases in this zone with the
target of the high of last week.

It will be relevant to sell the euro if the price breaks out the support
and consolidates below at two US sessions.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 11.08.2020][7]

Yesterday, two resistances, Additional Zones, worked out. The price
reached Target Zone. The main target in the short-term trend has been
reached.

The short-term trend for the EURUSD is down. Big traders are trying to
break out Target Zone [1.1733 - 1.1715]. If they do, the next sell
target will be in Gold Zone [1.1642 – 1.1633].

For today, I recommend entering sell trades in the strong resistance
zones:

  1. Additional Zone [1.1772 - 1.1767].

  2. Intermediary Zone [1.1822 - 1.1813].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 11.08.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1772 - 1.1767]. TakeProfit: 1.1715. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1822 - 1.1813]. TakeProfit: 1.1715. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 11.08.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_110820_1.png?w=30&s=2a6a6e97aa7bc2430765f1f0ecc4cb20
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_110820_2.png?w=30&s=d8763a50eda9cf6f2ebf88b5d0f0c85d
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_110820_1.png?w=30&s=94fa308b11d14bbfd6fd99eb2f018bff
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_110820_2.png?w=30&s=2cc6f3fdc90b55b230ccd808d75d6223
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_110820_1.png?w=30&s=7bbf8760e5f186fa8c305cb5b01fb667
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_110820_2.png?w=30&s=5edb0abd5b724eb5b2cc8c31687ae808
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-11082020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-11082020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_146.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=2efcc506088a7dc8424eae67bba66471