+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-11"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 11.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 11.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 11, 2020

August 11, 2020

EUR/USD forecast: Dollar avoids responsibilityDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental U.S. dollar forecast for today

### Politics supports the euro

The value of a currency is determined by trust. Goldman Sachs says the
dollar is in danger of losing its status as the world's reserve currency
_._ JP Morgan doesn’t see any signals of it. But the fact is the
confidence in the euro has significantly increased. Germany, France, and
other EU countries are willing to help in the fight against the
pandemic. Unlike Donald Trump, who tries to shift responsibility to
state governors.

The extension of the financial aid package in the USA is not yet clear.
The White House is not willing to pay the unemployed more than $300 a
week. The rest, according to Trump, should be paid by the state
governments. First, $100 was announced, next, States were said to pay
$300. The governors said they can’t afford these payments, as the states
are trying to manage the costs of the pandemic. They called on
Republicans and Democrats to continue the dialogue. Although the problem
has not been solved, the US stock indexes do not fall. Some analysts
suggest that the agreement on the unemployment benefits will still be
reached. Although the number of COVID-19 cases surged in July, the
economic data were positive, which also supports the S&P 500. Moreover,
the epidemiological situation in the USA started improving in August.
Can the pandemic be managed without lockdowns?

The US economy can well continue recovering, but it will do it slower
than the euro area. In addition to lower risks of the euro-area breakup,
it is the key growth driver of the [EUR/USD][1]. According to Bloomberg,
the euro-area GDP will grow by 5.5 in 2021, which is 1.5% higher than
the US economy. Since 1992, the euro-area has outperformed the US in
economic growth only 8 times. That is why the euro’s correction is not
deep, and the asset managers are bullish on the single European
currency.

### Dynamics of net euro long positions

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 11.08.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Earlier, overseas [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s were bearish on the euro-area assets, also
because of the risks of the EU breakup. Now, the sentiment has
completely changed. They do not like that Donald Trump is always truing
someone to put the responsibility on. He blames the Fed, China, and now
the state governors. It is hard to admit one’s mistakes, but the
Americans also see the real situation. They are going to make the right
choice on November 4. It is good they have the choice.

Positive factors for Trump are the growth drivers for the US dollar. So,
the decline in Trump’s approval ratings is a good reason to buy the
[EUR/USD][1]. The euro’s correction doesn't start, although many wait
for it. Mizuho says the EURUSD should be up to 1.3 in July 2021, as the
euro is as strongest politically as ever. I stick to the former
scenario. After the price rebound from the dynamic supports levels of
1.172, 1.166, and 1.163, enter longs at the high of the breakout bar.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![EUR/USD forecast: Dollar avoids responsibility][5]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/eurusd-analysis-11-08-2020.jpg?w=30&s=7914b54f299763e999889d1c7bd7d444
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-dollar-avoids-responsibility&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-dollar-avoids-responsibility&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/eurusd-analysis-11-08-2020-blog.png?q=75&w=1000&s=729d9c38fe094b8d9047edd81cd2281f