+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-11"
description = "Forex Lot Size and Leverage Explanation, Calculator & PDF"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forex Lot Size and Leverage Explanation, Calculator & PDF"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 11, 2020

August 11, 2020

Forex Lot Size vs. LeverageMikhail Hypov

The [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) used by participants in the Forex market can be confusing for
novice traders. But everyone who comes to the exchange to earn money
should understand these concepts. Below we will look at such key
concepts as leverage and lot size on Forex, and find out what pips are.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Leverage and Lots in Forex

![LiteForex: Forex Lot Size and Leverage Explanation, Calculator & PDF |
LiteForex][1]

Leverage vs lot size are different concepts on Forex, but there is a
certain connection between them. Let's figure out what are leverage and
lots means.

Leverage means that the trader borrows funds from their Forex broker or
a related third party. With this financial support, they can open trades
more effectively than without leverage.

Now let's define the concept of lot on Forex.

> Lot is a contract measured in base currency units. So the number of
lots or portions of a lot determines the size of the opened trade.

The trader sets the volume in contracts when opening a position. Its
value can be from 0.01 to 100.

![LiteForex: Forex Lot Size and Leverage Explanation, Calculator & PDF |
LiteForex][2]

It is important for [beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/) on Forex to remember the connection
between the concepts of forex lot size and leverage.

Leverage actually doesn’t affect the size of the contract and its price.
However, the concept of leverage plays a significant role in determining
the size of a trader's position. The greater the leverage, the more a
trader can afford to buy or sell large lots in quantities that are many
times greater than their own funds.

### What are the pips?

Above we have discussed what lot and leverage are. The connecting link
between these two concepts is a pip (short for percentage in point). It
represents the minimum fraction of the change in the value of a trading
instrument.

In other words, a pip is the standard smallest unit of measure by which
a currency quote can change. On the foreign exchange market, 1 pip is
usually equal to $0.00001 in pairs with the US dollar.

[Oil][3] and [stocks][4], for example, have two characters after the
decimal point. So the last (second after the decimal point) figure is a
pip for these assets.

Let's look at the concept of a pip through an example. This way we can
clearly see the relationship between lot size and leverage on Forex.
Suppose we have a direct quote of [EURUSD][5] at 1.18699. This means
that 1 Euro is worth 1.18699 USD.

![LiteForex: Forex Lot Size and Leverage Explanation, Calculator & PDF |
LiteForex][6]

If this quotation grew by one point (up to 1.18700), the value of 1 US
dollar would decrease relative to the euro, since now you have to pay
0.00001 USD more for 1 euro.

Even 1 pip of price change has a direct impact on the final value of the
trade.

The standard size of one contract for most brokers is 100,000 units. 1
unit of [EURUSD][5] will be equal to 1.18699 USD.

 **Example:**

 _Suppose an [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/) buys 0.1 lots, hence the contract size will be
$11,869.9 (100,000 * 0.1 * 1.18699). Suppose the exchange rate of this
pair increases by one pip. Then the price of the contract of the same
size will be equal to $11,870.0._

 _So the cost of 1 pip with a 0.1 contract will be equal to 0.1 USD._

 _An [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/) can buy much more with leverage. Suppose that our trader
uses a 1:100 leverage and can increase the position by 100 times – they
will not buy 0.1, but 10 lots. With such a large position, the cost of 1
pip will be 10 USD._

This example clearly shows how leverage affects the value of a pip
through trade size. The more leverage, the larger position a trader can
open. The larger the position, the higher the value of one point.

### What is Lot Size

![LiteForex: Forex Lot Size and Leverage Explanation, Calculator & PDF |
LiteForex][7]

Now let's expand our knowledge of lot sizes. We mostly encounter four
varieties.

 **Lot type**

|

 **Number of units**  
  
---|---  
  
Standard

|

100,000  
  
Mini (1/10 of standard lot)

|

10,000  
  
Micro (1/100 of standard lot)

|

1,000  
  
Nano (1/1000 of standard lot)

|

100  
  
  1.  **Standard lot** is perhaps the most common type of contract on the Forex market and among brokers.

  2.  **Mini lot** is called fractional, it is equal to 1/10 of the standard lot size. It’s much less used than the standard lot. This type of contract is mostly used when trading contracts for cryptocurrency. Sometimes it can be encountered when trading on the metals market.

  3.  **Micro lot** is an even rarer on the Forex market. This fractional contract is more common among Forex brokers that provide access to CFD trading for cryptocurrencies and metals.

  4.  **Nano lot** is mostly found on the markets for raw materials, metals, and cryptocurrencies. This type of contract is extremely rare on the foreign exchange market.

 **Important!** The size of one lot expressed in base units is usually
not determined by the client, but by the requirements of the liquidity
provider.

We can see through the example of [LiteForex][8] that there are
completely different lot sizes for different asset groups and types of
trading instruments. LiteForex uses a standard lot of 100,000 units for
currency pairs and a nano lot for gold. If you look at the
cryptocurrencies, LiteForex offers its clients to trade Bitcoin and
Ethereum in lots of only 1 unit! Detailed information on contract sizes
for each trading instrument can be found [here][9].

It should be remembered that the cost of a position depends not only on
the number of units in the contract but also on the value of the
underlying asset or currency in which these units are expressed.

In the example above, we counted 0.1 lots for the [EURUSD][5] pair as
10,000 euro units denominated in dollars. Other instruments are
calculated by the same principle.

For example, a position in XAUUSD with a lot of 100 units will be equal
to 100 troy ounces in US dollars.

![LiteForex: Forex Lot Size and Leverage Explanation, Calculator & PDF |
LiteForex][10]

In the same way, for 1 [GBPJPY][11] contract equal to 100,000 units, the
trade value will be 100,000 British pounds against the Japanese yen.

What does all this mean for the Forex market participant? Only that by
buying cross rates (currency pairs that are not quoted against the US
dollar), you are not only betting that the quoted instrument will grow,
but also that the value of the quote currency will fall.

![LiteForex: Forex Lot Size and Leverage Explanation, Calculator & PDF |
LiteForex][12]

It is important for every trader and [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/) to know all the details of
trading a specific instrument.

> You can find the most detailed information about each asset in the
trader's personal account. It’s accessible even without registration. To
do this, go to the "Trade" section, select the desired trading
instrument, click on "Instrument Information" and scroll down to the
"Additional Information" [widget](https://www.fintechee.com/services/chart-widget/).

In addition to information about the lot, you can see a lot of useful
data there:

  *  **The cost of one pip** when buying 1 contract for this instrument.

  *  **Quoted Currency** \- the monetary unit in which the quote price is expressed. It always comes second in the designation of the pair. So it’s pretty easy to identify. Stocks, oil, indices have no quotation currency in the name of the asset. You can find information on how the asset is denominated in the section “[Information about Instrument][13]”.

  *  **Base currency** is the currency in which the contract price is expressed and which is traded in relation to the quoted currency.

  *  **Size of 1 lot** and the currency it is expressed in for this asset. This currency is usually called the base currency.

  *  **Leverage set up on your account.** If the broker has a leverage set for an asset in the form of [% of the margin][14], you will also see the leverage it corresponds to.

  *  **The size of the buy and sell swap** and the day of the triple swap. Swap is an overnight fee.

### What is Leverage

![LiteForex: Forex Lot Size and Leverage Explanation, Calculator & PDF |
LiteForex][15]

Leverage is a concept very closely related to margin. It is a financial
tool that allows traders to trade a much larger position than their own
trading account size allows.

 **Example:**

 _You have deposited 5,000 USD to your balance. You have chosen to use
1:20 leverage. Therefore, you can open positions for a total amount of
20 times your account = 100,000 USD._

> Want to know more about leverage and how it works? Then read this
[complete beginner's guide here][16].

## Differences & Relationship between Leverage and Lot Size in Forex

![LiteForex: Forex Lot Size and Leverage Explanation, Calculator & PDF |
LiteForex][17]

As we now know, leverage and lot size in Forex are different concepts.

Let's emphasize again: leverage does not affect the value of one
contract. The standard contract in currency will be one hundred thousand
units at any leverage.

However, leverage affects the amount of funds at the trader's disposal.
In order to see how the size of the Forex lots and leverage affect the
real value of the trade, let’s look at the calculation formulas with and
without leverage.

 **Normal trade value without leverage = number of lots (or their
fractions) * lot size * quote price**

With leverage, the trade value will be equal to the amount of margin.

 **Margin size = (number of lots (or their fractions) * lot size * quote
price) / leverage.**

So we see that the size of the contract is directly proportional to the
value of the trade. This means with an increase in the size of the lot
or its quantity, the value of the trade also increases.

The leverage ratio is inversely proportional to the value of the trade
and with an increase in the amount of leverage, the value of the trade
decreases.

 **Important: there are different recommendations for using leverage for
different types of trading instruments, depending on the conditions of
the [liquidity provider](https://www.fintechee.com/services/liquidity-provider/) the broker works with.**

The LiteForex broker uses leverage for metals, oil, indices,
cryptocurrencies, and stocks. This is a decrease in the trade value by
setting the percentage of the margin with. You can find this parameter
in the specification of a trading instrument.

For currency pairs, the leverage is set by the trader.

So in order to open a position, depending on the asset, you need either
a percentage of its actual value or the amount divided by the leverage
set by the trader in their account settings:

 **Asset type**

|

 **Margin percentage**

|

 **Leverage**  
  
---|---|---  
  
Metals

|

1%

|

1:100  
  
Palladium

|

n/a

|

Selected in account settings  
  
Oil

|

10%

|

1:10  
  
Indices

|

1%

|

1:100  
  
Stocks

|

2%

|

1:50  
  
Currencies

|

n/a

|

Selected in account settings  
  
Cryptocurrencies

|

10%

|

1:10  
  
### Example of the relationship between leverage and lot for Forex pairs

For currency pairs, leverage is set by the trader on their trading
account.

 _We open a position in the[EURUSD][5] for 1 lot._

 _To open 1 lot of EURUSD ( **buy 100 000 EUR** ) without leverage, a
trader will need **118 748 USD**._

 _Forex trading is margin trading and the trader has set a leverage of
1:1000._

 _So the amount of margin will be 1,000 times less than the actual value
of the position._

 _To buy 100 000 EUR, a trader will need only **118.75 USD** :_

![LiteForex: Forex Lot Size and Leverage Explanation, Calculator & PDF |
LiteForex][18]

### Example of the relationship between leverage and lot for metals

Leverage is used for all precious metals other than palladium.

Trading with a broker is margin trading, so leverage is applied to the
open trade. The margin for opening a position is calculated by the
formula:

 **Leverage-adjusted margin = Trade volume × Contract size × Price ×
Margin percentage / 100**

The margin percentage (fixed amount) is the leverage provided by the
broker when trading metals. LiteForex has margin percentage equal to 1%.

 **How it works:**

 _We open a position in the[XAUUSD][19] for 1 lot._

 _1 lot of gold is equal to **100 troy ounces**._

 _In the US dollars, the value of this position will be **206 548
USD**._

 _So the amount of margin will be only 1% of the actual value of the
position._

 _It means a trader will need **2065.48 USD** to buy 100 troy ounces of
gold (1 lot):_

![LiteForex: Forex Lot Size and Leverage Explanation, Calculator & PDF |
LiteForex][20]

### Example of the relationship between leverage and lot for stocks

Leverage is used for stocks, just like for gold, which I mentioned in
the example above.

The margin percentage for stocks with LiteForex is 2%.

 _We open a position to buy **1 APPLE share** through a broker._

 _The actual value of one #[AAPL][21] share is **449.20 USD**._

 _The amount of the margin for opening this position will be 2% of the
actual value, which is equal to **8.98 USD** : _

![LiteForex: Forex Lot Size and Leverage Explanation, Calculator & PDF |
LiteForex][22]

## Leverage and lot size calculator

The formulas above may seem complicated. If you want to know [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/)
calculate leverage and lot size as easy as possible and estimate the
potential profit, here is the answer: you can use the [leverage and lot
size calculator][23].

### Leverage Calculator

Use the lot size and leverage calculator below to calculate leverage and
margin to open the position for different instruments. All you need to
do is enter the values ​​you need for the trade and click “Calculate”. A
full calculation will appear below, including the amount of the margin.

What would be the required margin for 1 lot (100,000) eurusd, if your
leverage is 1:100? Try to calculate here:

## Summary

What is the difference between lot size and leverage? How are these two
factors related to each other? If you’ve read this article, you now know
the correct answers to these questions.

>  **I have prepared a short version of this article for you with the
most useful information and a summary of conclusions. Click here
to[download Forex Lot Size and Leverage PDF][24].**

Although the amount of leverage does not affect the size of the contract
itself, it increases the purchasing power of the account. It allows you
to buy more lots and reduce the amount of margin. The size of the
contract directly affects the volume of your position, and, therefore,
its final value.

 **Remember:**

  *  _The larger the position volume in lots, the larger your position in monetary [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/)._

  *  _The higher the leverage, the less margin you pay for opening positions with the same volume. Leverage expands the possible limits of your position without changing the amount actually deposited on the balance._

The information in this article will work best if you try to apply it in
practice. Calculate the value of the trade manually and then using a
calculator. This will allow you to understand leverage and size of the
contract - the basics for every forex trader.

To get a deeper understanding, I recommend opening trades of different
volumes on a demo account on [the simplest and most convenient
platform][25]. A demo account is available here without registration,
and you will see how the margin and current profit/loss differ depending
on the value of the contract.

Also, here you can create several demo accounts with different leverage.
It will allow you to see how lot size vs leverage correlate in practice.

Best regards,

Mikhail@Hypov

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][26]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][27] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

![Forex Lot Size vs. Leverage][28]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/razmer-lota-na-forekse-i-kreditnoe-plecho/Forex_leverage_and_lot_1.jpg?w=30&s=4a4d74653c191a322d9c66f9fc4406f8
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/razmer-lota-na-forekse-i-kreditnoe-plecho/changing_lot_size_2.jpg?w=30&s=c3a8f7e685c1db30384059da460d2d2a
   3. my.liteforex.com/?type=oil
   4. my.liteforex.com/?type=cfd
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/razmer-lota-na-forekse-i-kreditnoe-plecho/EURUSD_buy_4.jpg?w=30&s=776017eb7c9dd781c45672688ef53d3a
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/razmer-lota-na-forekse-i-kreditnoe-plecho/Chto_takoye_razmer_lota_na_Forekse_5.jpg?w=30&s=96c6307112ad7cde8d795bc490b9a946
   8. my.liteforex.com/
   9. www.liteforex.com/trading/trading-instruments/
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/razmer-lota-na-forekse-i-kreditnoe-plecho/Largest_lot_size_11.jpg?w=30&s=11d597d434eaeb41c1bf3adcd0d12c1c
   11. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPJPY
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/razmer-lota-na-forekse-i-kreditnoe-plecho/Personal_parlor_6.jpg?w=30&s=342c15c89601ff0c910f7d97a480f551
   13. my.liteforex.com/trading/info?symbol=UKBrent
   14. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/forex-leverage/#h3
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/razmer-lota-na-forekse-i-kreditnoe-plecho/Chto_takoe_kreditnoe_plecho_7.jpg?w=30&s=6a73cc0f271be7388dd0f61d49e6d3b8
   16. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/forex-leverage/
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/razmer-lota-na-forekse-i-kreditnoe-plecho/kreditnoye_plecho_i_razmer_lota_8.jpg?w=30&s=19eb7024eb7d2a8cef6c8259ac14dedc
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/razmer-lota-na-forekse-i-kreditnoe-plecho/margin-for-1-lot-of-eurusd.png?w=30&s=5a24cdbd58a2e76f672cf8072c6cfbdb
   19. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   20. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/razmer-lota-na-forekse-i-kreditnoe-plecho/margin-for-1-lot-of-xauusd.png?w=30&s=66fc4027d636ac204e291ec4ef87f1e8
   21. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23AAPL
   22. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/razmer-lota-na-forekse-i-kreditnoe-plecho/margin-for-1-lot-of-aapl.png?w=30&s=19f6665c219480b3fade05f2caa87e90
   23. www.liteforex.com/trading/forex-calculator/
   24. www.liteforex.com/uploads/documents/pdf/trading-blog/forex-lot-and-leverage.pdf
   25. my.liteforex.com/trading
   26. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=forex-leverage&slug2=forex-lot-size-vs-leverage&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   27. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=forex-leverage&slug2=forex-lot-size-vs-leverage&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   28. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/razmer-lota-na-forekse-i-kreditnoe-plecho/Razmer_lota_na_Forekse_i_kreditnoye_plecho_logo.png?q=75&w=1000&s=144acd4958c9c66189d00496a0517f9c