+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-11"
description = "How to trade using currency pairs correlation"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "How to trade using currency pairs correlation"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 12, 2020

August 12, 2020

Forex pairs correlation and [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) trade itJana Kane

The trader's success can be assessed by many parameters: profitable
trades, account balance or total deposit. However, I think the trader's
professionalism is determined by one very important indicator - the
ability to calculate and analyze statistical indicators.

The article covers the following subjects:

The understanding that currency pairs are interconnected, as well as the
ability to find this connection and use it will provide reliable
protection for your deposit.

## What is currency pairs correlation?

>  **The world currency market is a system of interconnected elements.
Change in some leads to the reaction of others and vice versa.**

This gigantic machine lives by its own laws. If you know them you can
predict the movement of currency quotes and earn money on the
fluctuation in the exchange rate. The phenomenon of currency correlation
reflects the interconnectedness of the currency pairs, the synchronism
of this process.

The correlation value shows how similarly two specific currency pairs
fluctuate. The higher the correlation index, the more synchronous the
change. Such currency pairs move together as if in unison. There is also
an inverse correlation between currency pairs reflecting the movement of
quotations in opposite directions.

>  **Correlation is the ability of one trading asset to repeat the
directional movements of another instrument.**

We can see a similar phenomenon in the financial markets with gold and
silver, or various grades of oil and its refined products.

## Theory and examples of Forex currency correlation

Correlation between currencies is a phenomenon that occurs when price
movements of several currency pairs are similar. There are two types of
correlations: positive and negative

 **Positive correlation** is a correlation in which price movements of
currency pairs change in the same direction. The charts of 2 similar
instruments have the same direction (for example, in both cases, the
trend is up).

 **Negative correlation** is a correlation in which price movements of
currency pairs change in different directions. That is, the uptrend of
one instrument is a “mirror reflection” of the chart of the second
instrument, which is directed downward.

An example of a  _positive correlation (direct correlation)_ is a
situation in which the expectations of traders are similar, as in the
case of the [EUR/USD][1] and the [EUR/GBP][2]. We can see that the forex
pair correlation chart coincide:

![LiteForex: Forex correlation pairs | How to trade using currency pairs
correlation][3]

An example of a _negative correlation (inverse correlation)_ is a
situation in which the expectations of traders are opposite, as is the
case with the [EUR/USD][1] and the [USD/CHF][4]. In this figure, we can
observe a mirror image of currency pairs:

![LiteForex: Forex correlation pairs | How to trade using currency pairs
correlation][5]

The strength of the correlation is measured in percent (or fractions):
100% (or 1) is the highest degree of correlation of two assets.

To determine this value, traders use the Pearson formula. First, they
select a certain set of price values ​​of two assets - X and Y. Then
they determine the average values ​​of X and Y on it, add the product of
the deviations of each value of the set from its average, and divide
them by the product of the standard deviation.

For two instruments with prices X and Y, the correlation coefficient
formula is as follows:

![LiteForex: Forex correlation pairs | How to trade using currency pairs
correlation][6]

On the Forex market, the correlation of currencies was determined at the
stage of its formation, when instead of using the “gold standard”,
national currency rates were tied to the US dollar.

It is believed that major currency pairs have a greater degree of
correlation among themselves than minor ones.

## What can a currency correlate with?

  *  **With other currencies.** Currencies can correlate with each other, as in our example. We will observe the correlation of two currency pairs, which include one common quoted currency.
  *  **With indices.** This should be clear too. Changes in indices lead to changes in a particular currency. For example, we can recall that the US dollar correlates well with the S&P500 index.
  *  **With commodity assets.** Commodity assets include everything that countries export and import. These are oil, gold, coal, aluminum, etc. You have probably deduced that there is a strong correlation between the Canadian dollar and oil. A correlation is also observed between the Australian dollar and gold.

## How to calculate currency correlation?

There are special calculators where you can select currency pairs and
calculate the correlation between them.  This is just a couple of mouse
clicks in the browser. Thankfully you don't have to calculate it
manually using the complex formula that I gave above. The currency pair
correlation calculator will show the value of positive and negative
correlation.

A direct correlation is shown with a “+” sign, or with no sign at all.

Inverse correlation is shown with a "-" sign.

>  **Note that there is a strong and weak correlation.** The stronger
the correlation, the more similar the price movements of the two
instruments. The weaker the correlation, the less similarity. The value
of a strong positive correlation is closer to "1". Or, respectively, to
"-1" for inverse correlation. The non correlated forex pairs is closer
to "0".

### Forex pair correlation calculator

The currency pair correlation calculator will show the value of positive
and negative correlation.  **Calculate forex majors, minors, and cross
currency pairs correlation here:**

You can find many [website](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/website-for-forex-trading/)s that calculate the forex pairs correlation
table. However, there are practically no trading tactics based on
correlation.

## Forex correlation [trading strategies](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/)

The correlation of currencies through the US dollar can be used in two
types of strategies:

  * After finding two correlating currency pairs, one of them is used to track signals that can indicate the direction of future movement in the second pair.

  * Using movement discrepancies (inverse correlation), traders sell one pair and buy another at the same time, or use cross-rate currency correlation. In this case, the number of points by which the two assets have diverged becomes the trader's profit when their movement coincides again and the correlation is restored.

 **Example No. 1**

Let's look at an example of such currency pairs like EUR/JPY (Euro and
Japanese Yen) and AUD/JPY (Australian Dollar and Japanese Yen). In both
cases, the quoted currency is the Japanese yen. It's strengthening on
the market (price increase) will lead to the euro and the Australian
dollar moving in the same direction synchronously. So there is a
positive correlation between the euro and the Australian dollar.

### How to benefit from currency correlation

Typically, correlation is used to confirm the correctness of the
analysis. You can observe the behavior of a particular currency pair
and, based on it, draw a conclusion regarding the currency pair
correlating with it. The more trades move in the same direction, the
higher the likelihood of establishing a new trend, which means that the
chances of a successful trade also increase. This way you get additional
confidence regarding simultaneous trades.

Correlation of currency pairs can double both your profit and your loss.
Let's consider an example of a positive correlation. For example, you
risk 5% of your deposit and open trades in the positively correlating
pairs EUR/USD and EUR/GPB. In this case, the total risk for these two
trades will not be 5%, but rather 10%. However, the amount of profit
will also double.

### Forex currency correlation strategy

Trading with Forex correlation pairs is pretty straightforward.
Depending on which currency pair you are trading, pay attention to other
currency pairs whose quoted currency is the quoted currency of your
financial instrument. You will need to carefully examine the price
charts of currency pairs correlating with each other. If you clearly see
that the price will fall in one of them, do not buy the currency
correlating with this pair. Using this method, you can reliably filter
out false signals.

 **Example No. 2**

Let's suppose your traded currency pair is the GBP/USD (British Pound
and American Dollar). The US dollar is a special currency, as it affects
the exchange rate of many world currencies. In this case, it would be
reasonable to pay attention to the price chart of the EUR/USD pair (euro
and US dollar) before making trading decisions. Also, do not forget
about the [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/). Although you are trading in the pound, important data on
the European currency can have a great effect on the British pound. This
will be the true manifestation of currency correlation. Always pay
attention to what happens with currencies that correlate with your
trading instrument - this is the essence of trading with Forex
correlation pairs.

## Currency correlation indicator MT4

There are many currency correlation indicators for MT4 and MT5. For example, [OverLay Chart Correlation MT4][7] will help you determine if there is a correlation between currencies or other instruments. [Netsrac Correlation MT5 Trade Indicator][8] (NCTI) is also popular. Both can be downloaded free of charge from the official MetaTrader [website](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/website-for-forex-trading/). Links are attached.

HOWEVER there are no indicators and advisers in common platforms that
can distribute roles between correlating pairs.

Trading uses non-linear approach, where the price flow is presented as a
“measure of information”. In this case, when using entropy, we get
indicators that allow one to understand which signals of the two assets
are leading:

![LiteForex: Forex correlation pairs | How to trade using currency pairs
correlation][9]

## Forex quasi-[arbitrage](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/arbitrage-bot-bitcoin/)

The problem of quasi-[arbitrage](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/arbitrage-bot-bitcoin/) of currency pairs with the US dollar as
the quoting currency is the lack of reliable signals about when to sell
one and buy the other pair in order to capitalize on the discrepancy.

The figure shows two combined [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) charts of the GBP/USD (above) and
the AUD/USD (below):

![LiteForex: Forex correlation pairs | How to trade using currency pairs
correlation][10]

There is a discrepancy between the trends of the pound and the
Australian dollar, which began in the summer of 2013 and lasted about
two years. Traders who entered the market when an inverse correlation
between the pairs occurred could not calculate a deposit that could
withstand the drawdown from such a difference in rates.

When calculating the profits and the deposit required to maintain the
position, the feasibility of trades of this kind remains a big question.

## Using the correlation between major currencies

Traders favoring the EUR/USD use carry-trade currencies to get leading
signals. In the currencies of states with high-interest rates relative
to Fed rates, trends begin earlier than they occur in the EUR/USD pair.

![LiteForex: Forex correlation pairs | How to trade using currency pairs
correlation][11]

The combined charts of the AUD/USD and the EUR/USD show the areas where
the EUR/USD is located on the lower Bollinger border with a period of
200, while the AUD/USD quotes cross the middle line of the indicator. It
is easy to notice that after such discrepancies, the EUR/USD trend
reverses trying to catch up with the AUD/USD trend that has moved ahead.

## Conclusion: [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) use forex correlation pairs

It is best to take correlation into account in 2 cases.

 **As a confirmation when opening a position:**

  * With direct correlation, the chart of one instrument must not contradict the chart of the second one;

  * With an inverse correlation, we need the expected direction of further movement to be the opposite.

 **As a filter in calculating the total risk for all trades:**

  * With a strong correlation, it makes no sense to open additional trades in the 2nd instrument if you already have open positions in the first one, because this will be equivalent to opening one trade-in double volume.

With a weak correlation, you can consider the 2nd instrument for opening
positions in order to diversify trade.

Summing up, I should note that the correlation between financial
instruments is not a constant factor. So it is recommended to use it not
as an independent type of analysis when making decisions, but as a kind
of filter.

## FAQs

Which forex pairs are most correlated?

There are three most traded Forex pairs with a positive correlation:
GBP/USD, AUD/USD, and EUR/USD. They are traded against the dollar (the
dollar is the quote currency), and any change in the behavior of the
dollar reflects in their rates. These currency pairs have negative
correlation counterparts, which include USD/CHF, USD/JPY, and USD/CAD.
They all have the dollar as the base currency, which is why they are
moving in the opposite direction to the majors mentioned above. For
example, for the AUD/USD pair, there are pairs with a positive
correlation (NZD/USD, AUD/JPY, NZD/JPY) and negative correlation
(USD/SGD, USD/CHF, USD/SEK).

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][12]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][13] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



![Forex pairs correlation and [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) trade it][14]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURGBP
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/direct-correlation.png?w=30&s=a116558f50d29ed2b23ea3c702cc2b81
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCHF
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/inverse-correlation.png?w=30&s=7b9a655aa30a8c9c462b69dfdd8cd4fa
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/correlation1.jpg?w=30&s=b08dce6823c13b4ba84f8579b7d3521c
   7. www.mql5.com/en/search#!keyword=OverLay%20Chart
   8. www.mql5.com/en/market/product/48468
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/correlation3.jpg?w=30&s=4aa0d01eea6bbfa751b43f3132805d87
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/correlation4.jpg?w=30&s=1dd12416801edd66f0325550e70b8273
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/correlation5.jpg?w=30&s=185d4dcb4abdf364480d3f7fe1b57cf1
   12. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=correlation&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   13. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=correlation&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_previews_enlarged/correlation_preview_1000x545_e.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=435b7c489aad19ba6e2f53171f1a1137