+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-11"
description = "The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Forecast for this month, year and long-term forecast."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Forecast for this month, year and long-term forecast."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 11, 2020

August 11, 2020

BTCUSD: Actual scenario for the next month and yearMikhail Hypov

## The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Correlation with gold. BTCUSD
forecast for August, for the second half of 2020, and a long-term
forecast

Today’s analytical bloc will be devoted to Bitcoin. The “digital gold”
has been often compared with the real yellow metal recently. Yesterday,
I saw an article on Bloomberg that portrayed those two assets as having
the same value. However, it’s important to avoid that kind of
simplification and understand the difference. Gold is a worldwide
acknowledged reserve asset, but it’s also the raw material essential to
microelectronics, chemistry, jewelry and some other sectors related to
medicine, biotechnology, and astronautics.

[Bitcoin][1] will never compare to gold in this regard because his only
function is saving, speculating, and making payments. What’s more, it’s
not the best stablecoin to perform the latter task.

To unveil any alleged connection between gold and digital gold, let’s
make a correlation analysis.

![LiteForex: The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Forecast for this
month, year and long-term forecast.][2]

The chart above shows the evolution of [BTCUSD][1] and [XAUUSD][3]
prices, the blue and the red lines, respectively. The correlation index
oscillator moves chaotically and often goes from plus to minus. It means
the prices don’t depend on each other.



Interestingly, if you had invested in gold instead of Bitcoin at the end
of November, you would have earned 10% more by now.

![LiteForex: The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Forecast for this
month, year and long-term forecast.][4]

Still, the correlation between gold and Bitcoin has been quite strong
from the second half of July. It may be due to a rising panic about the
dollar’s probable collapse. Such reputable magazines as Bloomberg,
FINANCIAL TIMES, and THE WALL STREET JOURNAL have kept discussing the
subject and its role in the economic crisis this summer. ![LiteForex:
The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Forecast for this month, year and
long-term forecast.][5]

![LiteForex: The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Forecast for this
month, year and long-term forecast.][6]

![LiteForex: The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Forecast for this
month, year and long-term forecast.][7]

Thus, the Robinhood effect occurred.

> The effect was named after the US brokerage company of the same name.
The idea is that markets and particular stocks that are specifically
interesting for lots of [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s behave irrationally: they fluctuate in
contrast to technical analysis rules, market multipliers, and actual
business states. Examples of stocks affected by the Robinhood effect are
Tesla, Amazon, Netflix, Microsoft, and NASDAQ.

Since Bitcoin and the whole crypto-market are open and accessible to
mass users, their price is prone to this effect. Associating
[Bitcoin][1] with real gold, a crowd of young [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s can
unintentionally hedge risks and move to the cryptocurrency market for
“risk aversion,” based on the general sentiment. Ironically,
cryptocurrency and Bitcoin, in particular, are considered to be some of
the riskiest assets, which is often forgotten.

I provided a detailed review of the [gold][8] market in my previous
article.

![LiteForex: The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Forecast for this
month, year and long-term forecast.][9]

To put it shortly, I expect that the gold price will grow in the nearest
future. Will Bitcoin follow the yellow metal? Are their scenarios
similar?



The answer to the both questions can be found in my [May’s article][10],
where I analyzed in detail the manipulations of Bitcoin’s rate and the
relation between the rate leaps and additional Tether emission. I’m
going to do almost the same now, analyzing the July-August period.

![LiteForex: The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Forecast for this
month, year and long-term forecast.][11]

The table below contains the result of my analysis. In total, almost
$2.5 billion in USDT equivalent was issued in 2 weeks.

![LiteForex: The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Forecast for this
month, year and long-term forecast.][12]

If we mark that information on the chart, we’ll see that almost the whole previous growth wave was accompanied with Tether’s emission. It confirms the “folk saying” by [Whale_alert]13.

> Once you heard USDT had been printed recently, get prepared for
Bitcoin’s growth.

![LiteForex: The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Forecast for this
month, year and long-term forecast.][14]

Based on the information above, 10th August draws particular attention:
the day when Tether’s emission worth 0.5 billion USDT took place. The
market reacted quietly at that moment. There even were sale attempts
(the white circle in the chart above). According to the long shadows
under the blue candlesticks, I can suppose that the issued USDTs aren’t
meant for pumping  [Bitcoin][1], but for controlling sales. It reminds
artificial consolidation in the form of an ascending triangle that may
be broken by an impulse from above or below.

![LiteForex: The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Forecast for this
month, year and long-term forecast.][15]

To calculate the probability of a breakout in either direction, it would
be useful to have [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) statistics concerning the realization of
this pattern for BTCUSD. If someone happens to have these stats, please
comment.

To be representative, the statistics should concern at least 100 cases
on H1+ time frames. Still, even in the absence of this information, we
can determine where the impulse is most likely to go.

![LiteForex: The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Forecast for this
month, year and long-term forecast.][16]

To do so, let’s have a look at a full-scale picture. The weekly chart
shows a historic event that took place on 27th July: a giant triangle
and the line of a 2-year bearish trend were broken by an impulse. The
target was equal to the triangle’s bottom. The projection of that scale
points to a level of 26,000 USD as the bullish growth’s peak. The target
is so obvious that I can’t help falling into conspiracy theories. If I
had some extra billions USDT, I would buy Bitcoin at its lowest, stir up
the market and support the bullish sentiment until [Bitcoin][1] broke
the historic high. Then I would cash in by selling all my Bitcoin
reserves and getting my real crispy US dollars amidst the crypto-
community’s exultation and big headlines in the press. Unfortunately,
I’m not that rich, but so is Bitfinex with its Tether printing press.

### Trading plan for the nearest month

### ![LiteForex: The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Forecast for this
month, year and long-term forecast.][17]

Have a look at the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) chart above:  on the one hand, we know about
the global bullish scenario; on the other hand, we see fading volumes
and artificial support at the current levels. It’s an interesting
picture. Two strong resistance levels come from the peaks of 10th July
and 6th August 2019. The Bitcoin price got too close to those levels,
but they will hardly be broken for lack of trading volumes. The bullish
assault will most likely fade after an ascending impulse, and a
retracement will begin. So, the trading plan for the next month looks
like the following:

![LiteForex: The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Forecast for this
month, year and long-term forecast.][18]

Wait until the level of 12,330 USD - the peak of 6th August 2019 - is
broken. Then, Bitcoin may grow a bit more, having got support. The
perfect sale price is near the next key level of 13,147 USDT. I’ll take
the average price of 12,800 USD as an example. Stop loss should be
placed above 13,147; the target will be close to the key support level
at 10,500 USDT. This scenario is even more likely to happen amidst
[gold’s][3] correction. Some of the holders may start selling BTCUSD
too.

 **Attention:** Remember to reset stop loss levels to save your profits
as this scenario is implemented.

Trading plan for this year and further on

![LiteForex: The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Forecast for this
month, year and long-term forecast.][19]

The monthly scenario considered, consolidation in the area of 10,500 -
12,300 USD will allow assaulting the next peak - the level of 26th June
at 13970 USD - in the long term. If this level is broken, the price may
grow up to 14.700, the next resistance level according to the Pivot
indicator. This year’s growth is limited by the TM candlestick
projection at 15,768 USD. I wouldn’t expect growth beyond that level
this year.

 **Attention:** It’s hard to estimate Bitcoin’s probability of growing
above 13,970 USD because it will depend on a few factors, such as
general market sentiment or dynamics of organic trade volume build-up.
So I recommend using Trailing Stop or move your Stop Loss manually as
the price grows.

![LiteForex: The main factors in Bitcoin’s growth. Forecast for this
month, year and long-term forecast.][20]

So, the trading plan for the rest of the year is as follows:

  * Buy BTCUSD at around 11,000 USD.
  * Place stop loss below 10,500 USD.
  * Target at around 15,500 USD.

 **Attention:**  The Take Profit level needs to be moved as the price
grows. Also, you can fix a part of profits once the key levels 12330,
13150 and 13970 USD are broken.

The P/R ratio exceeds 3 for both plans, so this trade may be considered
as safe. To increase profits manifold, you may use leverage, but be
careful about the risk limit and don’t exceed the 3% deposit risk. Any
reliable Forex broker which offers low spreads and swaps will do for
opening this trade. You can use [a demo account here at LiteForex][1] to
have a try first, without registration.

Subscribe and keep in touch!

* * *

Good luck and profits, everyone!

Yours,

Michael @Hypov

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][21]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][22] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![BTCUSD: Actual scenario for the next month and year][23]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.11/zoloto_protiv_[bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/)a_1.jpg?w=30&s=19bcbc7937337bd05c8e07815fc4d53d
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.11/zoloto_protiv_[bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/)a_2.jpg?w=30&s=6feaae558770330e67860762c3b0a34e
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.11/statya_ot_Bloomberg_3.jpg?w=30&s=2359536b684989955195d4728ac8fc63
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.11/statya_ot_wall_street_journal_4.jpg?w=30&s=44f85bbe5fa32e591cd983bdf6704b69
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.11/statya_ot_financial_times_5.jpg?w=30&s=30387d919debf8785fcf4f82f35d8b0c
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/where-is-the-gold-price-ceiling-the-actual-scenario-for-the-coming-months-and-years/
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.11/XAUUSD_6.jpg?w=30&s=7fcb80266e866d4883f21b681eb2cad5
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/[BTC](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/who-is-the-creator-of-bitcoin/)usd-main-market-myths-part-2/
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.11/emissiya_USDT_7.jpg?w=30&s=f7cce49a2d4de4e1034b8c5688c1bf34
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.11/[bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/)_8.jpg?w=30&s=1a232c4b31ede27ba68f4920d6d38b80
   13. twitter.com/whale_alert
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.11/[bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/)_9.jpg?w=30&s=bccc7ee25b8f0819ca3032fde64e8a58
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.11/[bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/)_10.jpg?w=30&s=fcd92e7825f239af3253fad7a9bba64b
   16. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.11/[bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/)_11.jpg?w=30&s=f8bff12a65654518a2be053620636033
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.11/[bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/)_12.1.jpg?w=30&s=110a890156de4471f06c8d76fec640ac
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.11/[bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/)_12.jpg?w=30&s=2e5359f8b8d0be780775ece0dbf3a3db
   19. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.11/[bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/)_13.jpg?w=30&s=fce821f1f0e468def2366366321f03d6
   20. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.11/[bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/)_14.jpg?w=30&s=cdce7c9c79bbc174c46965509b4e2f80
   21. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=[BTC](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/who-is-the-creator-of-bitcoin/)usd-actual-scenario-for-the-next-month-and-year&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   22. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=[BTC](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/who-is-the-creator-of-bitcoin/)usd-actual-scenario-for-the-next-month-and-year&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   23. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.11/[bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/)_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=7f590f55ce0ee8a5e90fecfda2cf2f95