+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-02"
description = "Forecast for US dollar price as of 2 June 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for US dollar price as of 2 June 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-02

2021-06-02

Game rules changed for dollar. Forecast as of 02.06.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Can we really talk about stability if its "pillar" has changed game
rules for many decades? The Fed's readiness to permit economic
overheating will agitate financial markets for a rather long time. Let’s
discuss it and make a trading plan for the [EURUSD][1].

## Weekly fundamental forecast for dollar

Forex had a feeling of deja vu: the USD was growing ahead of PCE index
publication and then fell on facts; the euro did the same a few hours
later. European inflation data exceeded Bloomberg's forecast of 1.9% in
May and reached 2% for the first time since the end of 2018.  Isn't that
a good reason to buy the regional currency expecting a split at the
ECB's meeting on 10 June? But in fact, the [EURUSD][1] collapsed.
Investors got nervous, and the market got unstable.

It's hard to react in accordance with fundamental analysis books when
the Fed -- the many-year pillar of stability -- changes game rules.
Markets know that faster inflation will result in toughening monetary
[policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) not to overheat the economy. This time, the Central bank is ready
to turn a blind eye to PCE's reaching the highest levels since the
1990ies. This circumstance holds back the growth of bond yields and
prevents the greenback from consolidating. However, the dollar sometimes
recalls having trumps.

### Inflation rate, Fed funds rate, and bond yields

 _Source: Wall Street Journal._

Contradictory data on the US labor market strengthen a market rumor
about the US loss of its exclusivity. But in fact, the IMF, the OECD,
the White House, and the Fed expect that the US economy will be the
first to get back to potential production levels -- the GDP value
projected before the pandemic. The Eurozone, Great Britain, and other
countries will do it much later. I'm not even mentioning developing
countries, where vaccination problems suggest a gap of several years.

### Deviations from potential GDP in 2022

 _Source: Wall Street Journal._

The uneven development of the global economy and the US economy's
success used to strengthen the USD against other major currencies. Now
that the Fed changed game rules, that trump of the USD is no longer
valid or rarely valid, or even pulls the [EURUSD][1] back.

I'd like to mention that not everyone is ready to follow the Fed's
example. The central banks of Norway, Canada, and New Zealand don't
intend to allow their national economies to overheat and are getting on
the road to normalization. The ECB is a unique regulator: the uneven
development of European countries splits the Executive Board into two
camps: those willing to follow the Fed's example and those who aren't.
As a result, there may be a real split at the meeting on 10 June.

### Weekly trading plan for [EURUSD][1]

Until then, [EURUSD][1] bears will counter-attack as the euro is being
bought on rumors and sold on facts, strong US labor stats are expected,
and FOMC officials' comments sound hawkish. Lael Brainard talked for the
first time about the Fed's readiness to "remain steady" and "reca[Libra](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/libra-creator/)te
a little bit." At the same time, Neel Kashkari reminded us the Central
bank had some "ammunition" to combat inflation. The pair's fall below
1.221 may be a reason for short-term sales to the level of 1.2155.







## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true