+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-18"
description = "Analysis of USD versus CAD. Actual scenarios for the nearest weeks, months, and the year 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis of USD versus CAD. Actual scenarios for the nearest weeks, months, and the year 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 18, 2020

August 18, 2020

USDCAD: Global analysis and actual development scenarioMikhail Hypov

Today we’re analysing the [USDCAD][1] pair.

The article covers the following subjects:

As usual, we’ll start with fundamental analysis.

![LiteForex: Analysis of USD versus CAD. Actual scenarios for the
nearest weeks, months, and the year 2021][2]

##  **Fundamental analysis of USDCAD**

According to Statistics Canada, the employment level recovered by over
50% compared with April’s crisis levels. The chart above shows that the
peak of 19.2 million people was reached in February, while the trough of
16.2 million was registered in April. The latest July statistics
registered the level of 17.8 million employed people, and the positive
dynamic continues. Bloomberg Nanos Index confirms the Canadians’
positive sentiment too.

> This index is based on weekly public surveys: 250 ordinary Canadians
regularly share their thoughts about their personal financial situations
and job security. The final index value is calculated on the same basis
as PMI: if a person’s economic mood grew more optimistic or pessimistic,
his or her “personal” value will be over 50 or below 50, respectively.
The average value is determined based on a thousand personal responses
gathered within 1 month. It reflects the Canadian people’s general mood
concerning their financial future.  The more optimists there are,
compared with the previous survey, the higher the index is.

![LiteForex: Analysis of USD versus CAD. Actual scenarios for the
nearest weeks, months, and the year 2021][3]

According to the chart above, consumer confidence is recovering fast.
The optimists prevail already in August. Even though the Canadian
economy had been in the deepest recession since the Great Depression, in
June there was registered the record-high demand for real estate. It
increased 23%, which resulted in a supply deficit and 9.4% growth of
house prices, compared with the year-ago value.  It might be the post-
isolation pent-up demand effect, but on the whole, the dynamics look
optimistic.![LiteForex: Analysis of USD versus CAD. Actual scenarios for
the nearest weeks, months, and the year 2021][4]

Finally, let’s analyse the Canadian 10-year bond yield. In the chart
above, it’s at the historic lows, just like its US peer.  However, the
Canadian market is in a better economic mood: the yield difference is
over 10%!

So, I can conclude that the Canadian economy doesn’t feel so bad and can
improve fast. If so, the Canadian dollar will be supported and may
consolidate against the USD. To confirm that, let’s switch to technical
analysis.

##  **Technical analysis of USDCAD**

![LiteForex: Analysis of USD versus CAD. Actual scenarios for the
nearest weeks, months, and the year 2021][5]

The 12-month time frame chart above displays the 50-year [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) of
[USDCAD’][1]s development.

![LiteForex: Analysis of USD versus CAD. Actual scenarios for the
nearest weeks, months, and the year 2021][6]

The scale that big allows determining four global levels at once:

  1. The psychologically important level of USD/CAD parity that gives rise to the first significant 10-year growth wave of the USD against the CAD.
  2. The 1985 year’s closure level at 1.4, a strong resistance level is broken only in 1997. 
  3. The 5-year bearish wave’s reversal zone at 1.1565 USD, a strong support level broken only in 2007.
  4. The closure level of the ultimate bullish candlestick in the biggest bullish wave at 1.6 USD, a psychologically important level.

![LiteForex: Analysis of USD versus CAD. Actual scenarios for the
nearest weeks, months, and the year 2021][7]

Now we see that the ticker is located between the second and the third
level. So, USDCAD will be moving at around 1.156 - 1.4 USD this and next
year. At the same time, there’s a typical long candlestick shadow in the
chart above. It’s been the second attempt to consolidate above level no
2 in the past 5 years. Another failure lowers the chance of breaking
above 1.4 USD. So, [USDCAD][1]’s local fluctuations should be examined
in a bearish context this and next year.![LiteForex: Analysis of USD
versus CAD. Actual scenarios for the nearest weeks, months, and the year
2021][8]

Let’s switch to the monthly time frame. [USDCAD][1] is in a local
bullish channel. After a sharp impulse, the price hit this channel’s
lower limit. Is it likely to be broken at the moment?

I don’t think so for a few reasons:

  1. The current level coincides with the Pivot indicator balance level that resists sales. 
  2.  The control level of the vertical volume indicator is located nearby too and serves as a magnet too.
  3. Sales are taking place amidst falling volumes. 

![LiteForex: Analysis of USD versus CAD. Actual scenarios for the
nearest weeks, months, and the year 2021][9]

Switching to a weekly chart, we don’t see any clear bullish signals, but
we observe a weaker bearish trend:

  1. Tom DeMark’s complex oscillator - the lower indicator in the chart above - is leaving the oversold zone.
  2. TD ROC oscillator is in the balance zone but indicates a bullish convergence (marked with a violet segment).
  3. The last week updates the previous candlestick’s minimum, but it isn’t supported with the growth of volumes (marked with red arrows).

##  **Trading plan for August-September**

![LiteForex: Analysis of USD versus CAD. Actual scenarios for the
nearest weeks, months, and the year 2021][10]

The buyers of [USDCAD][1] are growing more active in the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) chart
above. Considering the signals on the higher degree time frames, we may
presume that the local trend will reverse soon. As there haven’t been
any clear signals to buy yet, there may be a breakout in the local blue
trading channel.  The “sweet” zone for buyers is at 1.31.  If I manage
to open a long position at this level, I’ll be lucky. However, this
false impulse isn’t very likely to occur, and we need to watch over the
signals on smaller time frames not to miss a reversal point.

The long position’s target is at around 1.345 USD.

Stop loss needs to be placed below the psychologically important level
of 1.30 USD. As an entry point can’t be clearly identified at the
moment, a definite trading plan is hard to provide. The P/R ratio varies
from 3.3 to 1, depending on the entry point. Remember to observe your
risk management system, when trading.

##  **Long-term trading plan for the end of 2020 and the beginning of
2021**

![LiteForex: Analysis of USD versus CAD. Actual scenarios for the
nearest weeks, months, and the year 2021][11]

Based on the scenario for the nearest months, we are likely to have a
false breakout of the descending triangle from below. The chart above
shows the candlestick’s projection as a grey triangle, to where USDCAD’s
rate returned. It’s likely to touch the tolerance zone - the violet
triangle. Still, further growth is hardly possible. Most likely, the
ticker won’t have gone outside the candlestick’s projection zone until
the end of the year. On account of the CAD’s global consolidation trend
and Canada’s positive macro-economic data, short positions in
[USDCAD][1] will be given priority in the long term. The level of  1.345
- 1.3450 USD is a sale zone. Stop-loss should be placed above local
highs, at 1.37 and higher. The short position’s target is at 1.30 USD.
Be careful: this trading plan is highly risky. The Profit/Risk ratio is
less than 2.

##  **Forecast for the CAD price for the year 2021**

![LiteForex: Analysis of USD versus CAD. Actual scenarios for the
nearest weeks, months, and the year 2021][12]

If the bearish attack on the USD continues, the sellers’ target will be
the lower limit of the global channel and the psychologically important
level of 1.16 USD. USDCAD’s confident fall below1.30 USD will be a
confirming signal for this plan. The critical level that will cancel
short positions is located at 1.40 USD. Once it’s broken and the pair
starts moving upwards, we should plan a long position in USDCAD, but
it’s another story. Subscribe to keep in touch!

When it comes to the 2021 plan, the P/R ratio of 3 is just perfect.

Following this scenario, choose your broker right because swap
commissions may eat up a substantial part of profits. [LiteForex][1]
offers an optimal combination of reliability and cost. Beginners can try
free demo accounts without registration. Have a try!

* * *

Good luck and profits, everyone!

Yours,

Michael @Hypov

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][13]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][14] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USDCAD in real time mode

![USDCAD: Global analysis and actual development scenario][15]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCAD
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.18/uroven_trudoustroyennykh_1.jpg?w=30&s=c1e5c635d5d25930a039020e19ca3743
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.18/bloomberg_nanos_index_2.jpg?w=30&s=22f534e986864caa567500f7739917ad
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.18/US10Y_vs_CA10Y_3.jpg?w=30&s=137b721de991af4ebf1551352761d36b
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.18/USDCAD_4.jpg?w=30&s=77b74d1bad52c41276be7321697471c8
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.18/USDCAD_5.jpg?w=30&s=38e680b28497807db9fa021cd49c9448
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.18/USDCAD_6.jpg?w=30&s=15550fc8df3fca6e66575d82ad9f9808
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.18/USDCAD_7.jpg?w=30&s=696ec023a8129f200bf9dbda482b7fe0
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.18/USDCAD_8.jpg?w=30&s=d0eb2dd36597f135d3562d019b8f2a88
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.18/USDCAD_9.jpg?w=30&s=93fdcfd78402c283e55e23f04ac10b29
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.18/USDCAD_10.jpg?w=30&s=44954a92122c963158d8f96c1dac3edb
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.18/USDCAD_11.jpg?w=30&s=94089589e4577cf298921510a519cd10
   13. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=usdcad-global-analysis-and-actual-development-scenario&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   14. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=usdcad-global-analysis-and-actual-development-scenario&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.18/USDCAD_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=ad6376abd3ca4c0e15f5964af0f406dc