+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-29"
description = "Pound Price Forecast as of December 29, 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound Price Forecast as of December 29, 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-29

2020-12-29

Pound dreams about Singapore. Forecast as of 29.12.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The agreement with the EU opens up new prospects for the UK. Britain can
enter into contracts on its own behalf and count on capital inflows to
the local securities market. What does this mean for [GBPUSD][1]? Let us
discuss this topic and make up a trading plan.

## Fundamental pound forecast for a year

The euphoria over the successful Brexit dissipated like a morning fog,
while the thin post-Christmas market and traders’ desire to take profit
from the longs sent [GBPUSD][1] quotes to the bottom of figure 34. One
can only guess how the story would have ended for the pound if London
and Brussels had not come to an agreement in the end. However, in
reality, they simply had no other choice.

The loss of the European market, which accounts for about 43% of UK
exports and 52% of imports, would be a real disaster for the British
economy and another blow to Boris Johnson’s reputation. His non-
recognition of COVID-19 turned into the worst recession for the country
in three hundred years. It must be said that the Prime Minister began to
improve. He organized the world's first large-scale vaccination against
coronavirus and achieved a successful Brexit. This is favorable for the
pound’s long-term outlook, but while traders are weighing the [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of
the agreement with the EU, it is under pressure.

The Office for Budget Responsibility predicts that the UK economy will
fall by 4% within 15 years, even if the country maintains access to the
single market. Indeed, London and Brussels have agreed on duty-free
trade in goods. Still, about 80% of Britain's GDP is in the service
sector, which is likely to experience problems due to restrictions
related to the people’s movement across borders.

### UK GDP Forecasts

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Brexit advocates, by contrast, are optimistic. They are confident that
Boris Johnson will be able to recreate Singapore’s economic model in the
UK. London will strengthen its position as an international financial
center, which will be greatly facilitated by the inflow of capital into
the British securities market. Indeed, since the 2016 referendum, local
stock indices have been losing ground to their global counterparts and
now look undervalued. Given the growing global risk appetite in 2021,
the UK assets should be more demanded by foreign [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s.

### Dynamics of world stock indices

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Reduction of uncertainty, as well as hopes for additional fiscal
stimulus from the US Congress, rumors of which will continue to support
the [S&P 500][2] rally, will help to recover the [GBPUSD][1] uptrend.
The main risk factor for the pound in the first half of 2021 is a
potential referendum on Scottish independence.

### [GBPUSD][3] trading plan for a year

Most likely, the second half of the next year will not be as successful
for the GBPUSD bulls as the first one. I associate this with the change
in the Fed's outlook. By that time, the US economy, thanks to massive
fiscal stimulus, should start expanding, and inflation should rise. This
will force the Fed to change its views. It is one thing to talk about
holding rates for a long time when the economy is just recovering from a
recession, and another thing when it is growing at an extraordinary
pace. Thus, by the end of June, [GBPUSD][1] quotes may rise to 1.4-1.42,
but the pound risks to end the year at $1.37-1.39.



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.lite.forex/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.lite.forex/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true