+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-28"
description = "Forecast for USD price for 28 October 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for USD price for 28 October 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-28

2020-10-28

Dollar rocks on the waves. Analysis as of 28.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The fast spread of COVID-19 across the USA and Europe gives a hand to
[EURUSD][1] bears. Will the pandemic make traders forget about the US
presidential election? Let’s find it out and make a trading plan.

## Weekly fundamental forecast for the dollar

The fear of coronavirus makes US stock market bulls retreat, which
results in the US dollar’s consolidation. The number of new cases hits a
record high in the USA. The US also reported record high hospitalization
rates since 19 August, while France recorded the highest [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) death
toll since April. Emmanuel Macron is rumored to introduce another
lockdown. That dropped the [EURUSD][1] quotes below the bottom of figure
18. The fall might have been deeper if not for expectations of the
Democrats’ victory on 3 November.

According to 75% of 59 Reuters experts, a blue wave will be the best
option for the US economy. It will help the fiscal stimulus package
worth $1.8 trillion pass easily through Congress. Experts forecast that
the US GDP will draw down 4% in 2020 and expand 3.7% and 2.9% in
2021-2022, respectively.

### Reuters survey: What will support the US economy?

###



 _Source: Reuters._

A blue wave and post-election reduction in political uncertainty suggest
that volatility may fall. That’s good [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) for [S&P 500][2] and bad [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/)
for the greenback. The world’s largest financial manager BlackRock,
which manages assets worth $7.3 trillion, thinks that the USD will be
moderately weak for 1-3 years. The giant joints USD bulls, such as
Goldman Sachs and UBS. Its position explains why hedge funds are selling
out dollars in the forward market.

### USD index and speculative positions in USD

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Uncertainty feeds the dollar. The markets seem to know already the
presidential election’s results. The election factor excluded, the
second wave may drop [EURUSD][1] quotes significantly. We may face the
global economy’s double recession and another collapse of the [S&P
500][2] and the greenback’s hike like it was in March. All the previous
achievements will be canceled. Few are those who will remember the
housing prices’ growth in the USA and the fifth consecutive month of
increase in US durable goods orders.

### US durable goods orders



 _Source: Bloomberg._

At first sight, the second pandemic wave must push the ECB to active
actions as early as at the 29 October meeting. However, QE expansion
won’t solve the COVID-19 issue. European banks stop crediting, fearing
bad debt growth. So, Christine Lagarde’s main task is to calm down
financial markets. A hint about an additional stimulus in December may
help with that task.

### Weekly trading plan for [EURUSD][1]

Thus, the pandemic returned to Forex’s forefront and consolidated the
USD. However, I think it’s still possible to exploit the factor of Joe
Biden’s victory in the short term. The [EURUSD][1]’s retracement from
support at 1.1745 or return to 1.1815 and higher may be a signal to open
long positions for impatient and adventurous traders.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-rocks-on-the-waves-analysis-as-of-28102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-rocks-on-the-waves-analysis-as-of-28102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus