+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-28"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (28 October 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (28 October 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=26.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-28

2020-10-28

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 28.10.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The euro experienced a correction to the medium-term uptrend yesterday.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Sell crude oil using the “double top” pattern with the target at the
Target Zone [37.34 - 36.72]. After reaching the target, look for longs
with the target at local highs.

Let's go to the chart of a smaller timeframe and analyze the short-term
trend.

It's a downtrend. The target is Target Zone [36.53 - 36.02]. Yesterday,
traders carried out a price correction and tested Additional Zone [39.48
- 39.35]. The zone was held and there was a price decline afterwards.

Today I recommend holding the existing oil shorts up to the target and
looking for new ones at a correction. If the local minimum is updated,
the Additional and Intermediary zones will have to be updated from the
new low.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Hold the shorts made in the area [39.35 - 40.88]. TakeProfit: Target
Zone [36.53 - 36.02]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Let's look at the chart of a large timeframe. There is a medium-term
downtrend for gold. The key resistance level has not been reached yet.
It is at the level of [1951.0 - 1941.7]. After the key resistance level
is tested, look for entries into shorts.

There are no big changes on the chart of a smaller timeframe. Gold is
being traded in a short-term uptrend with the target at Target Zone
[1951.0 - 1941.7]. I recommend holding longs according to the pattern
from the area [1902.7 - 1882.0].

Alternative scenario: short-term trend reversal after the Intermediary
Zone [1880.7 - 1875.4] breakout and consolidation below. If this is the
case, look for shorts with the target at the lower Target Zone.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Hold the long trades made in the area [1902.7 - 1882.0]. TakeProfit:
Target Zone [1951.0 - 1941.7]. StopLoss: 1894.4.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro experienced a correction to the medium-term uptrend yesterday.
At the moment, traders are testing strong support levels in the area of
50% and 61.8% of the correction. I recommend looking for a buy pattern
to update the local maximum + Target Zone 2 [1.2032 - 1.2012].

Short-term trend for the euro is upward. The target is at the upper
Target Zone [1.1943 - 1.1920].

Additional Zone [1.1822 - 1.1817] was broken through yesterday within
the correction. Today, wait for the Intermediary Zone [1.1764 - 1.1753]
to be tested and start looking for a buy pattern.

Sell the euro if the price consolidates below the IZ today or tomorrow.
In this situation, the trend will change to a downward one.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1764 - 1.1753].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1943 - 1.1920]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-28102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-28102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus