+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-18"
description = "Gold price forecast 18 February 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Gold price forecast 18 February 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-18

2021-02-18

Gold falls into old trap. Forecast as of 18.02.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The Federal Reserve System of the USA is not the only enemy of the gold
bears. Global economic recovery will weaken the dollar and help
[XAUUSD][1] traders. But will they find the strength to update the
record high? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a gold trading
plan.

## Fundamental gold forecast for a week

Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat its mistakes.
In the fall of 2011, gold prices soared to an all-time high of $1921 per
ounce on hopes that massive monetary and fiscal stimulus designed to
save the US economy from a recession would trigger inflation. This did
not happen, and that record was held for almost ten years. What's the
current situation? A new recession, new fiscal stimuli from the Fed, the
White House, and Congress, new expectations for a rise of consumer
prices, and ... a new [XAUUSD][1] high. Deja vu, isn't it?

The parallels between the crises of 2008-2009 and 2020, of course, are
apparent. But now, events are unfolding much faster. A deeper recession,
more massive stimuli, and a faster recovery of the US GDP suggest that
the Fed should act faster. The central bank started talking about
curtailing QE in 2013, which finally "broke the back" of the gold bulls,
inflated the yield on Treasury bonds, and established all necessary
conditions for the USD index uptrend. If Jerome Powell was not afraid to
repeat the past mistakes, the gold positions could be easily called
hopeless.

A strong dollar and rising US debt market rates are the two main targets
of the [XAUUSD][1] bears. Only the restraint of the Fed does not allow
the events of 2013 to be repeated. At the same time, the dynamics of
global business activity convince that the potential for a rally in
Treasury yields has not been depleted, and the differential rates in the
Eurozone and the United States are playing into the hands of the
greenback.

### Dynamics of global PMI and Treasury yields



 _Source: Nordea Markets._

### Dynamics of [EURUSD][2] and rates of the US and Eurozone debt
markets

 _Source: Nordea Markets._

Not surprisingly, that the reserves of the largest exchange-traded fund,
SPDR Gold Shares, are falling to their lowest levels since July. The
growth in demand for physical assets in China and India is unlikely to
help gold price. In 2013, the precious metal also flowed from West to
East ([ETF](https://www.fixpro.org/post/etf-liquidity/) stocks were decreasing, Asia's interest in jewelry was
increasing), which was one of the reasons for [XAUUSD][1]'s reversal to
a bearish trend.

The Fed is not the only enemy of the gold traders. The seasonal COVID
cases decrease, vaccination process, the opening of economies after
lockdowns, and their explosive growth will help to maintain global risk
appetite at a high level and weaken the US dollar as a safe-haven
currency. This scenario looks quite real, so the precious metal will
still fight. Its buyers need to understand that the record high of $2075
per ounce most likely will remain so for the next ten years.

### Weekly gold trading plan

For me, the main question is when to enter long trades with targets at
$1300-1400? If current events were developing as in 2011-2013, then this
would have to be done in 2022. Nowadays, time flows faster, so look for
opportunities to open short trades in the second half of 2021. In the
meantime, look for medium-term longs at the levels of $1800 and $1810
per ounce. The US dollar is not as strong as it seems, and the Fed will
not allow Treasury yields to grow as fast as in January-February.



## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true