+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-18"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (18 February 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (18 February 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-18

2021-02-18

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 18.02.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

All targets have been met within the gold short-term downtrend. The last
target was Target Zone [1775 - 1765]. The price touched it at
yesterday's US trading session.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil bulls consolidated the price above Target Zone 5 [59.82 - 59.31]. If
today US trading session closes above the zone, set Target Zone 6 [64.92
- 64.41] as the next growth target. The trend border moves to the levels
[57.71 - 57.26].

Yesterday, oil worked out the priority bullish pattern, reaching Gold
Zone 4 [61.54 - 61.32]. Now traders are trying to consolidate the oil
price above this resistance. If successful, the next target will be
Target Zone 5 [64.03 - 63.58].

During the correction, look for new purchases at strong supports:
Additional Zone [61.11 - 60.99] and Intermediary Zone [59.97 - 59.75]. A
pattern must be formed to enter buy trades. The target for purchases
will be today's high.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [61.11 - 60.99]. TakeProfit: 62.18. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [59.97 - 59.75]. TakeProfit: 62.18. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Yesterday gold bears updated February 4's low, thereby continuing a
medium-term downtrend. The second target for sales is Target Zone 2
[1759 - 1749].

All targets have been met within the gold short-term downtrend. The last
target was Target Zone [1775 - 1765]. The price touched it at
yesterday's US trading session.

However, the downtrend continues.

The further decline will depend on traders' ability to break out the
Target Zone and consolidate below. If successful, the next target will
be Gold Zone [1720 - 1715].

Consider new sales according to the patterns at resistances: Additional
Zone [1799 - 1797] and Intermediary Zone [1830 - 1824].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1799 - 1797]. TakeProfit: 1770. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1830 - 1824]. TakeProfit: 1770. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Yesterday there was a powerful fall in the EUR/USD price. Major traders
were accumulating positions near the key resistance of the medium-term
downtrend [1.2128 - 1.2112]. Also, yesterday a false breakout sell
pattern was formed. Today, look for an entry point for a medium-term
sell according to the pattern with the target at the February low.

In the chart of a shorter timeframe, the euro price broke out the key
support of the short-term uptrend [1.2089 - 1.2081]. The US trading
session closed below the support. Consequently, the trend has reversed
down.

From today the target for sales is Target Zone [1.2009 - 1.1993].
Intraday resistance has formed at the levels [1.2067 - 1.2063]. The
border of the new trend is located between the levels [1.2111 - 1.2103].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Sell from the level 1.2113. TakeProfit: 1.1954. StopLoss: 1.2171.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-18022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-18022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus