+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-18"
description = "US dollar price forecast 18 February 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 18 February 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-18

2021-02-18

How to manage the dollar smile? Forecast as of 18.02.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

Europe faces a recession while the USA creates new jobs and companies.
The US GDP could be up 9.5%, while the euro area could slide into a
double-dip recession. Naturally, the [EURUSD][1] is declining. How long
will the correction last? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a
trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

The market economy is based on immunity – its ability to independently
cope with the emerging troubles while the administrative economy is
similar to chemotherapy. There is a chance of a cure for the disease,
but it is unknown how other organs will react to the medicine. The US
approach to managing the pandemic is tighter but also more flexible than
that of the euro area. The Eu governments prohibit layoffs and
bankruptcy, creating the possibility of zombie companies emerging. The
US helps those who can really do it to survive. Different strategies
increase the divergence in the economic growth, which still encourages
the [EURUSD][1] bears.

The euro-area economies are still locked down while the US is creating
new companies and new jobs. These circumstances revive the dollar smile
theory. The dollar smile theory suggests the greenback's strengthening
in response to the recession due to [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s’ demand for safe-havens in
the first stage, the dollar weakening in the second stage amid the Fed’s
aggressive monetary expansion, and, finally, the USD growth in the third
stage due to the different recovery rates of the US GDP and its global
peers. Looking at the European lockdown, the EU administrative methods
of the pandemic management and the US positive economic data, it seems
that the dollar is entering the third stage.

U.S. retail sales surged in January by the most in seven months (+5.3%
Y-o-Y) amid the massive fiscal stimulus under Donald Trump. Joe Biden is
willing to increase the financial assistance to the economy, which
suggests the US GDP should rebound already in the first quarter. Atlanta
Fed GDPNow model signals that the US GDP will expand by 9.5%, which is
significantly higher than its forecast of + 4.5% a week ago.

### Dynamics of US retail sales



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The economy is growing, inflationary expectations are growing, and
Treasury yields are growing. All the necessary conditions are emerging
for the normalization of the Fed's monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). The first step
should be to cut the asset purchase program by $ 120 billion a month,
the hints at which strengthened the greenback in January. Jerome Powell
discouraged the dollar bulls by stating that the Fed is unwilling to
repeat the errors that resulted in the taper tantrum in 2013. However,
the question of a pullback on the US QE is still open. In the minutes of
the FOMC January meeting, officials noted that it would take some time
before the QE reduction conditions are met.

It would seem that the growing popularity of the dollar smile theory
should break the [EURUSD][1] uptrend or at least result in a deep
correction down. The matter is that this theory is not the only one.
China, the USA, and the euro area are all in the same boat because of
the pandemic, and the success of the US economy could ultimately press
the greenback down.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

I believe both theories are viable. The latter will work out if there
are signs of the euro-area economic recovery. These signs can well
emerge from Germany’s and euro-area PMI data for February. If the euro-
area economic data change positively, it will be relevant to buy the
[EURUSD][1] on the breakouts of the resistances at 1.2065, 1.2085 and
1.2095.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true