+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-05"
description = "New Zealand dollar price forecast 5 October 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "New Zealand dollar price forecast 5 October 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-10-05

2021-10-05

Central banks' nightmares. Forecast for NZDUSD, NZDJPY and EURNZD as of
05.10.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Everyone solves the problem of accelerating inflation amid a slowdown in
economic growth in their own way. Someone continues to remain passive,
watch the Fed's actions, or raise rates. What will RBNZ officials do in
October? Let us discuss the market outlook and make up a trading plan
for [NZDUSD][1], [NZDJPY][2], and [EURNZD][3].

## Monthly New Zealand dollar fundamental forecast

At the end of 2021, central banks are faced with the most difficult
situation they could imagine. A sharp inflation acceleration accompanies
the slowdown in the economy, and regulators do not have a clear plan of
action. Should they start fighting the growth of out-of-control consumer
prices? But monetary restrictions will weaken domestic demand and
further slowdown GDP. Should they ignore inflation, as orthodox
economics recommends? But the time will come when rates will have to
rise very sharply, which will almost certainly trigger a recession.

Everyone solves the problem in their way. South Korea, Norway, and New
Zealand are the leaders of monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) normalization among developed
countries. The laggards include Japan, the Eurozone, and Switzerland.
Others prefer to look at the pack leader, the Fed, not forgetting to get
rid of monetary stimulus. Time will tell who is right. Historical
experience is contradictory. If, in the 1970s, against the backdrop of
the oil shock, the Bundesbank managed to curb inflation by raising
rates, then in 2011, the tightening of monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) turned out to be
the ECB's mistake.

The Reserve Bank of New Zealand seems to have made its choice. According
to 20 out of 21 Bloomberg experts, he will increase the cash rate by 25
bp at the meeting on October 6. This will be just the beginning of the
cycle. By August 2022, the rate may rise to 1.5%, which implies a
strengthening of the kiwi against the background of the increasing
attractiveness of New Zealand assets. Inflation exceeding the upper
limit of the target range of 1-3% (for the first time in 10 years), a
complete recovery of the labor market and a 31% rise in property prices
over the past year became the basis for monetary restrictions.

### Cash rate and inflation dynamics in New Zealand



 _Source: Bloomberg._

A couple of weeks ago, the markets did not exclude the possibility of a
cash rate increase by 50 bps in October. However, the fact that the
lockdown in Oakland continues dramatically reduces the chances of such
an increase. A more modest rate hike, along with room for future
monetary restrictions will provide more support to the [NZDUSD][1] bulls
than an aggressive rise in borrowing costs.

Alas, so far the Kiwi cannot fully take advantage of its advantages as
one of the leaders of normalization. The reason is the deterioration of
global risk appetite, which is manifested in the [S&P 500][4]
correction, and the remaining possibility of a resumption of the US-
China trade war. Washington does not intend to reduce or abandon import
tariffs. The United States, although open to dialogue, requires China to
fulfill its obligations under the deal.

In my opinion, the resolution of the national debt issue and the rumors
that the US and China are starting negotiations will allow the kiwi to
use its advantages. The most interesting are the strategies of buying
[NZDJPY][2] in the direction of 78.15 and 79.55 and selling [EURNZD][3]
to 1.656 and 1.645. A break of resistance at level 0.6975 could trigger
a [NZDUSD][1] rally in the short term.



## Price chart of NZDUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NZDUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NZDJPY&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURNZD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true