+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-05"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (5 October 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (5 October 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-10-05

2021-10-05

Short-term analysis for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 05.10.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

After reaching level 1.1565, the euro goes into an upward correction and
tests the Additional Zone 1.1611 - 1.1606.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil price is growing within a short-term uptrend. Yesterday, the market
did not provide a sell pattern in the resistance zone of 75.79 - 75.53.
As a result, the resistance was broken out, and then the Target Zone
78.59 - 78.08 was reached.

Now a correction can occur with a target in the Additional Zone 76.92 -
76.79. After testing the AZ, look for oil purchases again. The target
for purchases will be yesterday's high.

If the Additional Zone is broken out downside, then the correction will
continue with the target in the Intermediary Zone 75.64 - 75.39.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone 76.92 - 76.79.
TakeProfit: 78.08. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Yesterday, gold price corrected and tested the support zone of 1754 -
1751. The support was held. Closer to the US trading session, the price
returned to the zone of ​​good buy prices. With the opening of the
session, a powerful upward impulse began, which updated the previous
local highs. Thus, the short-term uptrend continued.

Now prices are rolling down after updating local highs. At the moment,
the price enters the zone of ​​good buy prices 1761 - 1749. Look for new
gold purchases according to the pattern with the target at yesterday's
high in the abovementioned zone.

The breakout of the Intermediary Zone 1751 - 1749 and price
consolidation below are required for sales.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Open buy positions according to the pattern in 1761 - 1749. TakeProfit:
1770. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Yesterday, the euro price broke out the Additional Zone 1.1611 - 1.1606
and went into correction. The target of the correction is the test of
the Intermediary Zone 1.1659 - 1.1650.

Since the opening of the trades, the euro price began to decline and
reached the zone of good buy prices 1.1611 - 1.1591. Look for a pattern
to enter a long trade in the beforementioned zone and buy euro with a
target in the Intermediary Zone.

Level 1.1589 serves as the key support for today. If it is broken out
downside and the price consolidates below, the short-term downtrend will
continue with the target at level 1.1565.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Open buy positions according to the pattern in 1.1611 - 1.1591.
TakeProfit:  Intermediary Zone 1.1659 - 1.1650. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-05102021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-05102021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus