+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-25"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 25.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 25.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 25, 2020

August 25, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 25.08.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

It is relevant to buy oil in the ongoing uptrend. The target is to reach
Target Zone 6 [49.17 – 48.42]. Good prices to enter purchases will be
either in the broken-out TZ5 according to the pattern or in the key
support zone [37.23 — 36.61].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 25.08.2020][1]

The short-term oil trend is also up. However, buyers are failing to
break out Additional Zone [42.70 – 42.55], which is the strong
resistance. As long as the price is trading under the zone, we can hold
down sell trades and enter new ones.

If the price breaks out Additional Zone and consolidates above, we shall
buy oil in the trend. The upside target will be the high of August and
Gold Zone 5 [45.04 – 44.67].

Another zone to enter buy trades in the trend is Intermediary Zone
[40.33 – 40.02]. It is the trend border.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 25.08.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Hold down sell trades entered in Additional Zone [42.70 - 42.55]. TakeProfit: 41.00, Intermediary Zone [40.33 - 40.02]. StopLoss: 42.72.
  2. Buy according to the pattern Intermediary Zone [40.33 - 40.02]. TakeProfit: 43.40. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold is trading in the range of [1957.9 - 1913.1] in the middle-term
chart. According to margin zones, the gold medium-term trend is up. I
suggest entering new purchases according to the pattern with a target in
Target Zone 2 [2044.9 – 2036.2].

If bears break out level 1913.1 and consolidate the price below, the
gold middle-term trend will turn down, and we shall sell the precious
metal.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 25.08.2020][4]

The price tested Intermediary Zone [1962.6 – 1957.9] in the correction
yesterday. It drew a false breakout pattern to sell after the test.
Today, I recommend selling gold according to the pattern with a target
at the low of August 21.

An alternative scenario. The price breaks out IZ, and the US session
closes above the zone. If so, the short-term trend will turn up. In this
case, we shall buy gold with a target in the upper Target Zone [2013.7 —
2004.4].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 25.08.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1962.6 - 1957.9].
TakeProfit: 1912.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The euro-dollar middle-term uptrend continues. Traders are testing
Target Zone [1.1783 – 1.1765], which is the trend key support. The price
hasn’t broken out the zone. Look for a buy pattern and buy with a target
at the high of August.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 25.08.2020][7]

The EUR/SUD short-term trend is down. Traders were testing the trend key
resistance Intermediary Zone [1.1854 – 1.1845] yesterday. The sellers
reacted and drew the price down to Target Zone [1.1783 – 1.1765].

There is no sell pattern, however, according to technical analysis. The
pattern will emerge when the price breaks through yesterday’s low and
consolidates below.

It will relevant to buy the euro when the price breaks through
yesterday’s high and consolidates above.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 25.08.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1854 - 1.1845].
TakeProfit: 1.1755, Gold Zone [1.1692 - 1.1683]. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 25.08.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_250820_1.png?w=30&s=d3fa4844d7723104e51751645a36a82c
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_250820_2.png?w=30&s=7063819842481fe21301e370242b8e72
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_250820_1.png?w=30&s=76a82b6c50ed81f3aa9bb2cd6f287ca5
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_250820_2.png?w=30&s=b7c964b820cadf1db8e5c8252ae8a155
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_250820_1.png?w=30&s=5f92991f493779069f2e4493f73a5226
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_250820_2.png?w=30&s=923a036f7c42b34868f79ad583aa3196
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-25082020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-25082020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_148.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=8324af11f1415f154f2082c9b987fa58