+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-25"
description = "Fundamental and technical analysis of AUDUSD"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Fundamental and technical analysis of AUDUSD"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 25, 2020

August 25, 2020

Analysis of AUDUSD and forecast for the AUD priceMikhail Hypov

We continue to examine the most popular currency pairs, and today’s
article subject is the Australian dollar.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Comparison with the previous forecast

About three months ago, I [introduced][1] you to this trading instrument
and reviewed Australia’s economy.

![LiteForex: Forecast for the Australian dollar: Fundamental and
technical analysis of AUDUSD][2]

I made a cautious long-term forecast of AUDUSD’s consolidation within a
triangle and forming of a solid foundation for a trend reversal.  The
key level was located at 0.7 USD in that scenario. The trading plan was
meant for a few years, but the market behaved in a different way.

![LiteForex: Forecast for the Australian dollar: Fundamental and
technical analysis of AUDUSD][3]

The long-term targets were reached within a few months. Obviously, the
short-term and the long-term scenarios need to be revised.

## Fundamental analysis of AUDUSD

It turned out that providing fundamental analysis of the AUD is the
hardest thing because there are too many factors that affect the rate.

### First factor: stock market’s and economy’s states

In my previous article, I mentioned the Chinese economy’s strong
influence on the Australian dollar, since China is Australia’s main
trading partner. We know that growing exports increase demand for
national currency. Global economists agree that China will be the first
country to combat the crisis. This will be a positive factor for the
whole region’s economy, and the Australian one in particular. Australia
might cope well with the crisis and support the national currency’s rate
given a growing demand for raw materials. On the other hand, Australia’s
economy is still in a recession.

![LiteForex: Forecast for the Australian dollar: Fundamental and
technical analysis of AUDUSD][4]



According to the Australian Bureau of Statistics’ preliminary data, the
country’s GDP is expected to fall 0.3% in 2020. The deepest drawdown
took place in Q2 and cost 8% of GDP to the economy, presumably.
![LiteForex: Forecast for the Australian dollar: Fundamental and
technical analysis of AUDUSD][5]

Facing the challenges, the Australian government developed a standard
relief package that implied a soft monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). The RBA dropped the
interest rate from 0.8% in February to 0.25% in April.![LiteForex:
Forecast for the Australian dollar: Fundamental and technical analysis
of AUDUSD][6]

The chart above shows the [ASX200][7] index and the AUDUSD pair.  The
stock index and the AUD collapsed at the same time and started
recovering at the same time too. One may think these two indicators are
closely related, with a correlation coefficient close to 1. In fact,
it’s not true.![LiteForex: Forecast for the Australian dollar:
Fundamental and technical analysis of AUDUSD][8]

On a larger scale, there’s no stable correlation. AUDUSD’s independence
from the stock market has been obvious from 2012. Thus, the latest
growth isn’t related to economic growth or the Australian stock market’s
bullish sentiment.

### Second factor: gold price

One may be surprised at the fact that the AUD is a commodity currency
because of the country’s commodity exports. Historically, the AUD rate
has been associated with the [gold][9] price. In fact, it’s a mere myth
that I’m going to unveil now. Indeed, Australia is the world’s second
biggest gold producer and the fifth biggest gold exporter. However, the
Australian gold export share is just 6.5% of the total export volume.

![LiteForex: Forecast for the Australian dollar: Fundamental and
technical analysis of AUDUSD][10]

The charts of gold and the Australian dollar are shown above. Up to
2009, the correlation index did show that these two instruments’
evolutions are similar. The correlation totally disappeared in 2009 and
hasn’t been registered ever since.

![LiteForex: Forecast for the Australian dollar: Fundamental and
technical analysis of AUDUSD][11]

From 2019, [XAU][9] and AUD have been moving in opposite directions.
Unless we knew it, we could think the AUD consolidated amidst rising
gold prices as they have been in an uptrend from April. ![LiteForex:
Forecast for the Australian dollar: Fundamental and technical analysis
of AUDUSD][12]

![LiteForex: Forecast for the Australian dollar: Fundamental and
technical analysis of AUDUSD][13]

To debunk entirely the belief that the gold rate influences the
Australian dollar, I suggest comparing three charts: the RBA’s interest
rate, the gold rate, and the [AUDUSD][14]’s rate. I marked three periods
in those charts:

  1. 2001-2008, the period of recovering after the dotcom crisis.  The economic growth speeds up inflation and raises prices of commodities and metals, including gold. The Reserve Bank of Australia raises the rate for inflation targeting, which finally raises the national currency rate.
  2. 2008-2009, the period of mortgage lending crisis that affected the whole world. Stock markets and commodity markets collapse. The Reserve Bank of Australia cuts the interest rate from 6.75% to 3.5%, and the Australian dollar falls too.
  3. 2009-2012, a new recovery period. The same factors start working here: economic growth -> inflation growth -> higher demand for gold and higher interest rate -> consolidation of the national currency.

So we see, neither [gold][9] price nor gold demand are related to the
AUD rate.

> Show this article to anyone who disagrees :)

The correlation between XAUUSD and AUDUSD is temporary and linked to
general macro-economic factors that affect both the currency market and
the market of metals. It’s here that we could stop searching for the
main factor that affects the Australian dollar. It’s the RBA’s interest
rate!  But let’s have a look at AUDUSD’s dynamics in the past month.

![LiteForex: Forecast for the Australian dollar: Fundamental and
technical analysis of AUDUSD][15]

It’s been up since the middle of March.![LiteForex: Forecast for the
Australian dollar: Fundamental and technical analysis of AUDUSD][16]



At the same time, the Reserve Bank’s rate remained at its historic lows.
With a refinance rate that low, the AUD rate could have dropped to the
bottom too, but we see it growing fast. So, there must exist at least
one more serious factor that affects Australia’s dollar.

### Third factor: the USD index

We have examined the factors that are directly connected with Australia
and influence the AUD, but we haven’t covered the factors that affect
the USD itself.

![LiteForex: Forecast for the Australian dollar: Fundamental and
technical analysis of AUDUSD][17]

The chart above shows the AUDUSD rate in the upper part and the USD
index in the lower part. We see that their evolutions mirror each
other.![LiteForex: Forecast for the Australian dollar: Fundamental and
technical analysis of AUDUSD][18]

To check the stability of this connection, let’s make a correlation
analysis on a longer time frame. The 40+ year [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) of these two
instruments’ evolution is shown in the chart above. The correlation
indicator shows that the coefficient of correlation between DXY and
AUDUSD has been systematically negative since 2000, and rarely has a
value other than minus 1.

Based on empirical evidence, we proved that the main factor in the
AUDUSD evolution is the USD itself. Thus, the AUD rate doesn’t
consolidate because of the Australian economy’s recovery or growing gold
prices. AUDUSD grows because of a weaker dollar. To make the correct
forecast for AUDUSD, we need to make the correct analysis of the USD
index. That’s what I’ll start my next analysis with on Tuesday.
Subscribe to the blog and bookmark this article, not to miss my follow-
up analysis! It will be interesting.

* * *

Good luck and profits, everyone!

Yours,

Michael @Hypov

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][19]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][20] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

![Analysis of AUDUSD and forecast for the AUD price][21]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/audusd-fundamental-and-technical-analysis-short--and-long-term-forecasts/
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.25/AUDUSD_1.jpg?w=30&s=718f9bdaa8001c245ef7bb0149c97568
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.25/AUDUSD_2.jpg?w=30&s=b64f91c6f9de8fcbfa2885eb73819753
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.25/VVP_Avstraliy_3.jpg?w=30&s=b59cfc9d70aa0d489b9f2e6c4a502f19
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.25/procentnay_stavka_4.jpg?w=30&s=5911f903a443c64c7949a14dce36c04e
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.25/AUDUSD_protiv_ASX200_5.jpg?w=30&s=65d3c1f0f12c1cd5696e980b4438b73c
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ASX200
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.25/AUDUSD_protiv_ASX200_6.jpg?w=30&s=0d1d888fadaa073e0b69d6ef30dd75e4
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.25/AUDUSD_protiv_Zoloto_7.jpg?w=30&s=3e3f7d1d699a5e023d1d923ad7fe5250
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.25/AUDUSD_protiv_Zoloto_8.jpg?w=30&s=fc7a63d67d5bd7aa9c1be01643193aa2
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.25/procentnay_stavka_9.jpg?w=30&s=17976f6cf44296c193bac6bf2ba12069
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.25/AUDUSD_protiv_Zoloto_10.jpg?w=30&s=3f4707290811f1976aa5e2df77a1f7cf
   14. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.25/AUDUSD_11.jpg?w=30&s=0d1e966a0a45a4b8a53df1c393219cf3
   16. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.25/procentnay_stavka_12.jpg?w=30&s=ed0896be25c11cad795200711fb9ede8
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.25/AUDUSD_protiv_DXY_13.jpg?w=30&s=8ee296de244789093d3ccecb962bb31c
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.25/AUDUSD_protiv_DXY_14.jpg?w=30&s=90e269a3ba1e568135381cde078f15b2
   19. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-of-audusd-and-forecast-for-the-aud-price&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   20. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-of-audusd-and-forecast-for-the-aud-price&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   21. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.08.25/AUDUSD_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=bff7e64cc73451be8a41ed1de0e5af64