+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-25"
description = "XAG/USD forecast for 25.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "XAG/USD forecast for 25.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 25, 2020

August 25, 2020

XAG/USD forecast: Silver is against vaccinesDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental silver price forecast for today

### Open the XAG/USD positions according to outcomes of Jerome Powell’s
speech in Jackson Hole

Silver, having reached the targets at $27.5 and $28.5 indicated in
[July][1], crashed down. However, silver has risen in value a little
finally. The major downside drivers for silver were the growth of the
Treasury yields and the minutes of the FOMC meeting, where the officials
announced that the Fed does not need to control the yield curve. The
decline in the Treasury real yields has been the main [XAG/USD][2]
growth driver in 2020. If the Fed doesn’t control the yield rise, the
precious metals sector will be weighed on.

The primary reasons for the increase in the Treasury yield are the US
economic recovery, easing of the geopolitical tensions, the expansion of
the US budget deficit, and the US national debt. However, Donald plans
to fast-track getting the experimental vaccine from the UK. Furthermore,
Washington recognizes Beijing’s efforts to comply with the phase-one
trade deal commitments. These factors suggest some optimism about the US
GDP outlook, setting the [XAG/USD][2] bulls back.

But still, the growth of the Treasury yields and a less dovish tone of
the minutes of the FOMC July meeting have pressed on gold stronger than
on the silver. The gold/silver ratio has contracted to 72, which
supports the strategy of buying the [XAG/USD][2] and selling the
[XAU/USD][3] at the same time suggested in the [previous analytics][1].
The [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) value of the indicator is 69. Commerzbank believes that
silver is not much undervalued compared to gold. The bank says the
significant reasons for a drop in the G/S ratio is the substantially
strong demand for the silver [ETF](https://www.fixpro.org/post/etf-liquidity/)s.

###  **Dynamics of capital inflows into gold and silver [ETF](https://www.fixpro.org/post/etf-liquidity/)s**

![LiteForex: XAG/USD forecast for 25.08.2020][4]

 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

There is severe selling pressure in the precious metal market. It
results from Donald Trump’s willingness to win the presidential election
by demonstrating his efficiency in the US-China relations, the fight
against the pandemic, and in the US stock market rally. The Fed’s
unwillingness to control the Treasury yield curve is also a bearish
factor for precious metals. Nevertheless, the polls show that Joe Biden
leads over Donald Trump. If Biden becomes the president, the silver
bulls will be supported. The Democrat won’t attack China as aggressively
as the current US president, which is likely to widen the US foreign
trade deficit. The expansion of the US twin deficit is a bearish factor
for the greenback.

### Dynamics of the US twin deficit and USD

![LiteForex: XAG/USD forecast for 25.08.2020][5]

 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

Remarkably, the [XAG/USD][2] bulls can be supported in the short run by
Jerome Powell’s speech in Jackson Hole. According to TD Securities, the
US central banker is going to announce the Fed’s plans for average
inflation targeting, which means to put up with the inflation rise above
2%. Nordea Markets believes that it makes no sense without the control
of the yield curve, so the Fed should bring this idea back sooner or
later. Therefore, a pleasant surprise from the Fed could resume the
silver rally, if the price breaks out the resistances at $27.25 and
$27.75. Otherwise, the [XAG/USD][2] is likely to roll down to 25.75 and
24.35.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of XAGUSD in real time mode

![XAG/USD forecast: Silver is against vaccines][8]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/forecast-for-xagusd-silver-is-given-the-green-light/
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true&_
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/gold-silver-etf-25-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=a5f1de8d7ffb5cdaaa4947fca2d1dff0
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/dollar-twi-25-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=f1bd9c159430e9f9206df6b6fdf1bd95
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=xagusd-forecast-silver-is-against-vaccines&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=xagusd-forecast-silver-is-against-vaccines&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-silver-25-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=3c02d5f71c1d39392bd169435e8c9e98