+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-05"
description = "1-2-3 Pattern: the classic and other approaches to 1-2-3 pattern"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "1-2-3 Pattern: the classic and other approaches to 1-2-3 pattern"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=26.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-05

2021-04-05

1-2-3 Pattern: candlestick model tradingDmitri Demidenko

Trend is your friend, trade along the trend. This trivial truth looks at
any beginner trader from every textbook on technical analysis. It would
seem that nothing is easier: determine the direction of price movement,
wait for the correction and buy something that has become cheaper if the
market is dominated by bulls; or sell something that is more expensive
if the initiative belongs to the bears. In reality, it's not so simple.
The desire to act together with the crowd often turns into losses.
Ultimately, if the majority were always right, the sun would still
rotate around the Earth.

Tendencies often unfold on the background of the formation and
implementation of countertrend patterns. One of them is 1-2-3.
Graphically it looks like a combination of three extremes, the second of
which is a correctional one. In this case, in the conditions of the
bullish market, point 3 is always below point 1. If the situation is
controlled by bears, point 3, on the contrary, will be located above
point 1.

The article covers the following subjects:

## 1-2-3 Pattern: Easy to Hard

The classical approach to pattern 1-2-3 involves opening short positions
at the break of the correctional low. The buyers who seriously expect
the upward trend to be restored are most likely to have set their stop
orders there. Their avalanche triggering allows you to see a sharp
downward movement in the chart. It makes sense to set the stop order
just above point 3. The simplest exit from a position is based on the
formation and implementation of the reverse model.

The principle "sell (buy) and hold" is not good for everyone, because
after having lost profit several times, the trader begins to doubt its
effectiveness. They can use the method of partial consolidation of a
positive financial result by using various methods of position
management. In particular, a rather popular approach is the use of
profit factor. It is based on the principle that the potential profit
should be 3-4 times greater than the risk accepted by the trader. In
this scenario, even a trading system with a probability of less than 50%
will give positive financial results.

When opening a position, three lots (or three parts of the lot,
depending on the size of the deposit) are used. The first of them is
closed when profit reaches the stop order (R), which is then moved to
the breakeven point. Reverse trades for the second and third lots are
made when quotes fall to the 2R and 3R levels.

If you find the strength to use the principle "sell (buy) and hold",
then instead of partially consolidating the positive financial results,
you can simply move stop orders first to the break-even point, and then
to the profit-factor levels indicated.

Using the methods of harmonious trading allows you to modify the above
strategy. The places of divisible R are occupied by the Fibonacci levels
161.8%, 261.8% and 423.6%. At first glance, this approach looks more
logical than the previous one, because initially the trader has no
confidence in the trend reversal, so it makes sense to give preference
to narrower stop orders. In the future, as faith grows in the changing
trend, they can be expanded.

It should be noted that the classical approach based on the breakthrough
of the corrective extremum is not the only one. Aggressive traders can
take the trend line drawn through point 2 and the previous low by storm.
A short trade is opened at the breakout price or at the closing price of
the breakout bar.

Some traders like to take advantage of the 1-2-3 pattern, while others
hate it. The latter, as a rule, are people who try to earn on each
graphic configuration. This is an extremely dangerous approach. The
pattern needs a system of filters to improve the efficiency of trading.
We will talk about them in the following articles.

## The 1-2-3 pattern filters

You don't like cats? You simply don't know [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) cook them! Some
traders consider the 1-2-3 pattern described in the previous articles as
an essential element of the working trading system, but others, on the
contrary, are sure that its use is a waste of time. Indeed, if you play
out absolutely all the graphic patterns of this type emerging on the
market, the number of trades will go off scale, but their effectiveness
will not satisfy a Forex trader. To improve it, many people use a filter
or a filter system, after histrical pre-testing of the trading strategy.

Filter is a matter of personal taste. It often cuts off losing trades,
on the other hand, you can also miss the profitable ones. Perhaps the
main advantage of the restrictions is the formation of a clear trading
system that will be more effective than that of the competitor.

The simplest filter for 1-2-3 pattern is called rule 10-20-50. The first
two digits are the minimum and maximum number of bars located between
points 1 and 3, the last number is the size of the corrective movement
from the descending (ascending wave), resulting in the formation of a
low (high) in point 1. Thus, to make a trade using the 1-2-3 pattern in
a 4-hour NZD/USD chart, it is required that point 2 is at a level of at
least 50% of the last descending wave (in our example - between 50% and
61.8 %). If this does not happen, the 1-2-3 pattern is ignored.

The 1-2-3 pattern can be combined quite successfully with the principles
and tools of volume spread analysis (VSA). So according to the latter,
the strength of the trend is confirmed by growing volumes, while
correction, as a rule, is characterized by a decline in the volumes. In
the example with AUD/USD, the implementation of the reversal patter
finds confirmation in the trading activity. At the same time, an
important bar is being formed near point 3, indicating a high risk of a
decline.

As filters for the described graphical configuration, we can use not
only price action tools, but also standard or non-standard indicators.
The trader will play out the 1-2-3 pattern only if they see a divergence
- different locations of tops (bottoms) in the charts of currency pairs
and indicators. For example, in a 4-hour time frame for EUR/CAD there is
a discrepancy between the dynamics of the quotations and the MACD. In
the chart, the tops in the growing market are declining, while the
indicator consolidates their growth. Divergence allows a trader to
effectively enter a short position.



As indicators, we can use both trend indicators (as in the above example
- MACD) and oscillators, some of which are based on the detection of
overbought-oversold zones.

If you succumb to the general criticism and believe that the indicators
based on prices are lagging, you can return to the price action methods.
My experience suggests that speed is important in the implementation of
the reversal model. If the trend line constructed on the basis of point
2 and the previous fractal breaks through three bars, then the bulls in
the growing market run away from the battlefield, having lost faith in
their abilities to restore the uptrend.

It should be noted that the trader must initially determine the time
interval to work with. This is necessary to ensure that by leaping from
one time frame to another, filters are not artificially changed. Simply
put, do not be like a pig that will always find mud.

## 1-2-3 Pattern: from Roller coasters to Consolidation

Sometimes after reaching the top, the market falls down like a stone,
sometimes it starts to lose momentum and form consolidation ranges. As a
rule, in the first case, large players do not have time to take profits
at the optimal level, as they cannot find the required number of buyers.
In order to reduce the risks of such a scenario, they deliberately try
to assure their opponents that the uptrend is not yet complete, and the
situation may become favorable for the bulls at any moment. Alas, this
is just a deception, a trap created in order to take money from the
plankton.

### The formation of trading ranges

With regard to the 1-2-3 pattern, to which [several previous
materials][1] have been devoted, the formation of consolidation allows
us to talk about the varieties of the pattern. Often, the trading range
is formed within the wave 2-3, but a wider spread of waves should not
scare you, because it allows you to implement a variety of strategies.



The most popular variety of 1-2-3 pattern is the _**Splash and Shelf**_
model described in Linda Raschke's best-selling book Secrets of Top
Trading Performance. She assumes the formation of a peak in conditions
of a bullish trend with the subsequent formation of consolidation.
Within its framework, the big players who have had a change of heart
about the Canadian dollar are trying to identify the presence of serious
opponents and (or) close the previously formed long positions in the
USD/CAD at acceptable levels. The market mood is changing rapidly, and
the bears intercept the initiative in case the lower border of the
trading range (the shelf) is broken. This is the entry point to the
short position. Conservative traders should click SELL after the closure
of the breakout bar. It must be below the shelf.

The _**Splash and Shelf**_ pattern, unlike 1-2-3, is not an exclusively
reversal model. It can be played out in BUY on the bullish market if the
quotes have approached the upper boundary of the consolidation range,
and then took it by storm and took the buyers to the operational space.
However, bears often arrange traps for their opponents. One of them is
related to the formation of the pattern _**Fakeout-Shakeout**_. The key
condition for its formation is an unsuccessful testing or the so-called
false breakout of one of the boundaries of the consolidation range.



If the quotes of a currency pair return to its middle, there is your
entry point to the short position. A stop order should be set at the
level of one of the previous extremes. Conservative trading involves
entering into shorts at the breakout of the lower boundary of the shelf.
In the EUR/USD example, it is located near point 2 of the 1-2-3 pattern.
It should be noted that the  _ **Fakeout-Shakeout**_ is an independent
pattern and often appears in the charts with no connection to 1-2-3.

If the analyzed pair managed to rewrite both extremes one at a time, and
then returned to consolidation, then the probability of the
_**Broadening Wedge**_  pattern formation  is high. We will talk about
it in great detail in one of the following articles. Now I would like to
draw your attention to selling at the breakout of the lower limit of the
consolidation range 85.85-87.5 in AUD/JPY and setting a stop order at
the level of one of the previous highs.

Using consolidations within the implementation of various reversal
graphical configurations is the favorite strategy of many traders.
Trading ranges give the opportunity to _**win some time and think about
best entry and exit points, position size and risk**_. As a result, you
make a weighed decision that you feel confident in.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][2]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][3] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/the-1-2-3-pattern-filters/
   2. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=100-most-efficient-forex-chart-patterns&slug2=1-2-3-pattern-candlestick-model-trading&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   3. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=100-most-efficient-forex-chart-patterns&slug2=1-2-3-pattern-candlestick-model-trading&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus