+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-05"
description = "US dollar price forecast 5 April 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 5 April 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-05

2021-04-05

Dollar is to reveal its true nature. Forecast as of 05.04.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

Forex as changeable as the weather. Following the cold winter and the
undivided dominance of the US dollar, warmth and a change in [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)
sentiment are entering the market. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and
make up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

In April, it is too late to be pessimistic about the [EURUSD][1]
outlook, and it is too early to be optimistic. Europe faces a gloomy
spring as the continent manages the vaccine shortage, more infectious
variants of COVID-19, and pandemic fatigue. However, the euro bulls hope
that the epidemiological situation will soon improve, the European
Recovery Fund will be ratified, and the euro-area economy will rebound,
also due to the USA.

In March, the US labor market added 916,000 new jobs. In addition to the
revision of the January and February employment up and the drop in the
unemployment to a pandemic low of 6%, it allows optimists to say that
the US economy undergoes radical changes. Pessimists, on the contrary,
note that another 8.4 million new jobs are needed for the labor market
recovery. The US has a long way to go, and the Fed has no choice but to
continue monetary stimulus and keep rates at current levels until at
least 2023.

### Dynamics of US employment

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The financial market reaction to the release of the US jobs report was
muted as the stock market was closed due to Good Friday, and the bond
market had reduced working hours. U.S. Treasury yields received a bump
higher following the report, with the 10-year rate climbing as high as
1.724%, which somehow discouraged the [EURUSD][1] bulls. Investors
shifted their focus to the report on the ISM services PMI data. The
market should feature a more genuine reaction then.

The update of the IMF forecasts for global growth is also worth
attention. In January, the IMF expected to see the global GDP at 5.1%.
However, due to a new fiscal stimulus package from Joe Biden and
accelerated vaccinations in the USA, the estimate is likely to be
raised. Much of the International Monetary Fund's optimism is associated
with the United States, which will become the engine of global economic
growth in 2021. It would seem that American exclusivity will continue to
support the USD rally, but a lot can change in the second part of
spring.

Analysts are increasingly speaking about the two-speed economy. Among
the leaders are the United States, China, UK, and other countries where
vaccines are being actively introduced. The outsiders are emerging
markets, whose access to drugs from Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Moderna, and
other companies is limited, and Europe, where the vaccination company is
progressing extremely slowly. However, the EU vaccination rate could
increase, and the export-led euro-area economy could benefit from the
increase in US imports.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Under such circumstances, it is important to choose the right time. It
should be too early to buy the euro, but it is already too late to sell
the euro-dollar actively. The potential of the [EURUSD][1] downtrend
looks limited, and it should soon be relevant to buy the pair on the
price decline to 1.158-1.164. However, until the EURUSD price
consolidates above 1.184, bears continue to dominate in the market, and
it is still relevant to enter short-term sell trades.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the authorâ€™s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true