+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-12"
description = "Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 1."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 1."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 12, 2020

June 12, 2020

NeoWave. Part 27. Trading strategy based on the NeoWave theory. Part
1.Mikhail Hypov

## Trading plan based on the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Wave
analysis. Pattern identification. A way to enter a trade at the third
wave and take the profit.

Dear Friends!

In the previous lessons, I covered the theoretical aspects of the
NeoWave theory. Now, I want to show its practical application to real
trading. I will demonstrate all the peculiarities of the NeoWave trading
system used in cryptocurrency trading.  If you aren’t yet familiar with
the NeoWave theory, I recommend covering all the articles, starting from
the first one, in the NeoWave series based on Glenn Neely’s studies:

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][1].

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels. ][2]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][3]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][5]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][6].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][10].

[NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][11]

[NeoWave. Part 12. Impulsions and the rules to analyze impulse wave
patterns. ][12]

[NeoWave. Part 13. Corrections. Rules to identify a correction.][13]

[NeoWave. Part 14. Triangles. Rules to identify triangles.][14]

[NeoWave. Part 15. Basic and advanced rules of logic to analyze
triangles][15].

[NeoWave. Part 16. Extended rules of logic for Flats and Zigzags.][16]

[NeoWave. Part 17.][17][ ][17][Extended rules of logic for complex
corrective patterns.][17]

[NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance. Compaction
procedures. Power ratings.][18]

[NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels applied in trending impulses][19].

[NeoWave. Part 20. Application of progress labels to terminal
impulses.][20]

[NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships.][21]

[NeoWave. Part 22. Progress labels in flat corrections][22].

[NeoWave. Part 23. Progress labels in triangles.][23]

[NeoWave. Part 24. Progress labels in triangles and zigzags.][24]

[NeoWave. Part 25. Fibonacci relations and correction identification
with channeling][25].

[NeoWave. Part 26. Missing Waves and Emulations][26].

### Trading plan

The NeoWave Trading system suggests analyzing the market situation
according to the following plan:

1\. Analysis of monowaves (in some cases this step can be omitted if it
is a brief analysis of patterns of higher degree, or if the Elliott
pattern is obvious):

  * Analysis of monowaves according to the rules of retracement;
  * Making structure lists;
  * Identification of patterns and choosing relevant structure labels;
  * Placing structure labels;

2\. Analysis of patterns based on the main rules of impulsions.

3\. Analysis based on the rules of logic, equality, alternation (it is
not always possible to carry out at the stage of the pattern formation).

4\. Application of progress labels.

5\. Channeling and the prediction of patterns’ development using
Fibonacci relationships.

Well, let me show you how the NeoWave trading strategy works on an
example.

### Analysis of monowaves

To understand the market situation, we need to analyze monowaves
preceding the current monowave and after that combine them into Elliott
patterns. To analyze monowaves, we shall apply the Retracement rules
that I covered in the following parts:

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][3]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][5]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][6].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][10].

[NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][11]



![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely.
Part 1.][27]

First, we need to select the earliest monowave among those we are going
to analyze. The red zone in the chart marks the first monowave that we
will analyze, and the blue area marks the last complete monowave. I also
assigned a number to each wave of the studied interval. There 7 waves in
total.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely.
Part 1.][28]

We shall mark the first wave that we will analyze as m1, the next wave
on the right is m2. Next, we shall calculate the relations between m2
and m1. To find the ratios quickly, I will use Fibonacci retracements.
To find out the retracement rule relevant in the current market
situation, we shall use the table of rules presented in [Part 3][3].

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely.
Part 1.][29]

In our example, m2 will be 61.8% of m1. Therefore, according to the rule
table, we shall apply the third retracement rule.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely.
Part 1.][30]

As m0 is between 61.8% of 100% of m1, so, condition (с) of rule 3 is
applied to our case (I covered this rule in detail [here][5]).

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely.
Part 1.][31]

It is clear that m3 is shorter than m1, it is completely retraced during
a longer period of time than it took to form. So, according to paragraph
5 of rule 3 (c), m1 is likely to be the a-wave or the c-wave of a zigzag
that is an element of a more complex correction. We place “:F3/(:s5)” at
the end of m1. However, as m5 (plus one time unit) is completely
retraced by m4 faster than m4 took to form, we will remove “(:s5)” from
the structure list.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely.
Part 1.][32]

In the same way, I analyzed monowaves 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, labeling each
wave with m(-2), m(-1), m(0), m(1), m(2), and identifying then the
relevant rule and condition. Next, I put the relevant structure labels,
according to the rules. I won’t again describe this process in detail,
as it is similar for each wave, besides, I described the example for
each rule (see the links to the retracement rules above).

As a result, I have the following structure lists:

1\. Rule 3 (с), paragraph 5 “:F3”.

2\. Rule 2 (e), paragraph 1 “:5”.

3\. Rule 4 (d), categories i and ii, paragraph 5 “:F3/:c3”.

According to paragraph 5 of the (d) condition of rule 4, the most likely
structure label is “:F3”. Therefore, we shall put brackets around “:c3”
as less likely.

4\. Rule 6 (d), no paragraph is met.

5\. Rule 1 (b), paragraph 1 - “:s5”.

6\. Rule 1 (b), paragraph 1 - “x:c3?” (this structure label I discovered
in the analysis of wave 6).

Rule 7 (d), paragraph 4 - “:c3”.

7\. Rule 5, condition (a), no paragraph is met.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely.
Part 1.][33]

As the current results do not suggest anything (we haven’t identified a
few structure labels, and the present sequence doesn’t look like any
known Elliott pattern), we shall combine waves 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 into a
single conditional wave.

In this case, we have a three-wave pattern which would meet the
following requirements:

  1. Rule 2, condition (d), paragraph 1 - “:5”.
  2. Rule 5, condition (c), paragraph 7 - “:F3”.
  3. Rule 2, condition (c), paragraph 2 - “(:5/:s5)”.

Now, the sequence of structure labels is more clear. This sequence
looks, at first glance, looks like a zigzag. Due to a particular
structure sequence “:5 – :F3 – :5”, we can be sure that this is a zigzag
(you learn more about [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) identify wave patterns using structure
labels [here][18]).

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely.
Part 1.][34]

As you know from the previous training articles, a zigzag may be
followed by the linking wave X in a complex pattern. In the case of a
simple pattern, a zigzag is followed by the first wave of an impulse. As
the third wave is labeled as “:5/:s5”, it means that there could be a
should (X) wave with the continuation of the correction, or a new
impulse (I wrote about structure labels in detail [here][2]). As a rule,
the (X) wave is the shortest in the sequence. However, it is clear from
the above chart that this condition is not met. So, there is likely to
be developing a new impulse, namely, its first wave. To clarify the type
of the new impulsive formation, we need more data.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely.
Part 1.][35]

When there appears a new local high, we can assume wave (2) is about to
complete. We shall draw the base channel line across the zero level and
end of wave (2).

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely.
Part 1.][36]

The further situation suggests that the local low is not the end of wave
(2), it is just wave (A) of the first flat. Besides, the entire second
wave is a double flat. So, according to the principles described in
[part 21][21]. we shall move the baseline to the actual endpoint of wave
(2), which coincides with the end of the second zigzag in the double
flat. How do we understand that the second zigzag has ended? This
becomes clear based on the last wave, the highest point that has
exceeded the high of wave (B).

### Entry rules

Ahead of the third wave, it is time to enter the first trade. So, I will
write about the entry rules that we should observe when opening a buy
trade:

If you are going to enter a long trade, I recommend you to follow the
following rules:

  1. The downtrend turns up.
  2. A buy entry is put at the bar close if the close price is higher than the opening price.
  3. A buy entry is put if the current close is higher than the previous close.

Likewise, I recommend entering a short trade is the following conditions
are met:

  1. The uptrend turns down.
  2. A sell entry is put at the bar close if the close price is lower than the opening price.
  3. A sell entry is put if the current close is lower than the previous one.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely.
Part 1.][37]

In our example, the bar marked with the blue oval meets all the
requirements for a long trade:

  1. The downtrend turns up.
  2. The close price is higher than the open.
  3. The current close is higher than the previous close.

Besides, as I have already mentioned, the second zigzag ends, and so,
the correction is more likely to complete. This suggests that there
should start a new impulse in the position of the third wave. Therefore,
once the bar marked above closes, we shall enter a buy trade.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely.
Part 1.][38]

A stop loss is set at the zero level of the large impulse, this level is
marked with the red line in the chart.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely.
Part 1.][39]

When the presumed third wave breaks through the level where the first
wave ends (the yellow line in the chart), we should be more confident
that this is the third wave. Now, we can enter another long, as the
price must continue rising.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely.
Part 1.][40]

At this moment we need to set the target. Note that wave (1) has a
rather complex structure. Besides, the following flat correction signals
that the uptrend is strong. Therefore, we can assume that the first wave
is an extension. If so, according to the Fibonacci relations described
in [part 21][21], wave (3) should not exceed 61.8% of wave (1). I marked
the zone where wave (3) can be developing by the green area in the
chart. The upper border of the zone will be the level for a take profit.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely.
Part 1.][41]

In fact, the third wave should end exactly at the level of 61.8%. When
this level is reached, and there starts a new bear trend, we should
close the long trades we entered earlier. Besides, you should take into
account that the 61.8% level is the limit. If you notice the trend
reversing before the third wave reaches the 61.8% level, you should exit
the trade earlier, without waiting until the price reaches the target
zone.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely.
Part 1.][42]

Now we can analyze wave (1) of the presumed impulse. According to rule 1
(c), we should put “:5” in the structure list of wave (1). Remember, the
structure list of a trending impulse should be (you can learn more about
structure lists in [part 18][18]):

:5 – :F3 – :?5 – :F3 – :L5.

Therefore, we have another indirect evidence that the assumption about
the formation of an impulse pattern is correct. Besides, this is likely
to be a trending impulse. This assumption can be confirmed only when
wave (4) completes.

This all for today. In the next educational article, I will continue
covering the NeoWave trading strategy on the example of waves 4 and 5 of
the impulse and the following corrective formation.

It is high time you tested the theory in practice. Try to enter a trade
using the above algorithm for your trading instruments. Share your
results in the comments and help your colleagues with the analysis. If
you don’t yet trade, you can open both a demo and a real account here,
with  [LiteForex][43]. This broker offers the trading platform that is
well suited for the practical application of this trading system, as
well as many others. If you already trade with another broker, it is a
good time to change the company and join  [LiteForex][43]. If so, you
will have a real chance to win a house, a car, and many cool gadgets in
the [contest][44] with the total prize fund of 350 000 USD.

* * *

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][45]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][46] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![NeoWave. Part 27. Trading strategy based on the NeoWave theory. Part
1.][47]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b/
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a/
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-10-retracement-rule-6-conditions-b-c-and-d/
   11. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-11-retracement-rule-7/
   12. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-12-impulsions-and-the-rules-to-analyze-impulse-wave-patterns/
   13. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-13-corrections-rules-to-identify-a-correction/
   14. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-14-corrections-triangles-rules-to-identify-triangles/
   15. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-15-basic-and-advanced-rules-of-logic-to-analyze-triangles/
   16. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-16-extended-rules-of-logic-for-zigzags-and-flat-corrections/
   17. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-17-extended-rules-of-logic-for-complex-corrections-exceptions-to-the-rules-2020-05-07/
   18. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-18-rules-of-complexity-and-balance-compaction-procedures-power-ratings/
   19. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-19-progress-labels-and-application-of-progress-labels-to-trending-impulses/
   20. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-20-application-of-progress-labels-to-terminal-impulses/
   21. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-21-channeling-in-impulses-and-fibonacci-relationships/
   22. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-22-progress-labels-and-their-application-to-flat-corrections/
   23. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-23-progress-labels-and-their-application-to-triangles/
   24. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-24-progress-labels-in-triangles-and-zigzags/
   25. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-25-fibonacci-relations-and-correction-identification-with-channeling/
   26. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-26-missing-waves-and-emulations/
   27. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=6ba5daa14e73bd231690127e3ef09933
   28. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=60576a2dd7f8bec7c235f5de13653c3c
   29. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=bd23279e244bdbf417741914e6bd8b3b
   30. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=d09ec6029312d719551dfb3a6d4e44a3
   31. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=07cbcd6b4c80cb162ad9053bc5d893a2
   32. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=b34b5047640c21615e41dc74c05adaa7
   33. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=3ea9800dbab347d51e8ef393aa780357
   34. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=19cbb51af0b76daf4576b4172bad2ba7
   35. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=47f62f5e31c71969328b4ea079c87b2e
   36. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_10.jpg?w=30&s=67d47417096709b816452c62546402c0
   37. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_11.jpg?w=30&s=051f258d8903d114485882c9e1a175a3
   38. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_12.jpg?w=30&s=69311d140b4670277b61a4ae1e17e932
   39. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_13.jpg?w=30&s=c694a55c9654e7572d6e33423201ef86
   40. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_14.jpg?w=30&s=2316b1bf6627cb63c860d91aca12d1cd
   41. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_15.jpg?w=30&s=5338c42b53c8066b470f4a010952a442
   42. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_16.jpg?w=30&s=ffafba097aac1c8dace85f54f83f63d2
   43. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=currency
   44. www.liteforex.com/contests/dream-draw/
   45. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-27-trading-strategy-based-on-the-neowave-theory-part-1&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   46. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-27-trading-strategy-based-on-the-neowave-theory-part-1&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   47. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=fb77643850b100793a212a1b6a033d63