+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-12"
description = "Trump criticizes Fed"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Trump criticizes Fed"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 12, 2020

June 12, 2020

Trump barks but the caravan moves onDmitri Demidenko

##  **Here we go again, Donald**

All those women who are more beautiful than me are witches! The market’s
attention has been entirely riveted on the Fed during the second week of
June, which Donald Trump doesn’t like. The President, who has been
severely criticizing Jerome Powell for 2 years, has returned to his old
ways saying he’s been doing his job much better than Fed chair. It
doesn’t matter that he praised Powell for a large monetary stimulus and
called him “the best player in the team” not long ago. Trump’s mood
changes like a woman changes clothes.  And like the WHO changes its
attitude to mask wearing.

![LiteForex: Trump criticizes Fed][1]

Which one would you prefer, Jerome: Mendelssohn’s “Wedding March” or
Chopin’s funeral march? The president had been actively asking Fed chair
to cut the federal funds rate and revive QE. He would say, other
countries’ soft monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) granted them a competitive advantage.
Powell had been threatened with a dismissal many times. At the beginning
of summer the White House resident got upset about the Fed’s downbeat
forecasts for GDP, inflation and unemployment rates. According to White
House economic adviser Larry Kudlow, the Fed head had been doing his job
well, but a little bit more optimism would be welcome. Instead, the
Central bank mentioned a long economic recovery at FOMC’s meeting in
June. It distressed US stock indexes.

[S&P 500][2]’s epic 40% rally from March’s bottom levels was based on
cheap liquidity and belief in a V-shaped recovery of the US GDP.   The
mice that wanted to turn into hedgehogs cried but continued eating a
cactus; the buyers didn’t pay attention to pessimistic stats or a
complicated epidemiological environment. They swallowed spines trying to
catch the last train to the north of the US stock market. Rubbing his
hands, Trump knew that the rise of stock indexes was favourable to his
rating. The US president made his contribution to S&P 500’s rally by
promoting the idea of a fiscal stimulus through the Congress.

> \- No need to thank me. Start moulding my statue instead.

![LiteForex: Trump criticizes Fed][3]

From the very beginning of his presidency, it was obvious that Trump’s
main principle was “after us the deluge”. He managed to implement a tax
reform which wasn’t particularly needed in the conditions of economic
growth. The reduction of expenses and increase of budget deficit and
state debt seemed excessive back then, but everything is comparative.
The pandemic may blow the US debt to 130% of GDP. But who would be
concerned about that if the president decided to make the States a
paradise on earth. He must have forgotten: it’s better to get to hell
later than to paradise now.

![LiteForex: Trump criticizes Fed][4]

I don’t think Jerome Powell will change his ignoring tactics.  Dogs bark
but the caravan moves on. As an independent system, the Fed will go on
doing what it must despite all stones cast by the president. However,
the bank did cut the rate to zero and revive QE, which means criticism
does affect people’s states of mind.

> \- Elephants may bark but the caravan moves on.

>

> \- Where to?

>

> \- Psychiatrist

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of SPX in real time mode

![Trump barks but the caravan moves on][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/mask-12-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=2a7074a1838ca842df2e05ad1d9a0804
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/mouse-12-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=12f0b4a724441d0b2f8699756d622f8c
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/heaven-hell-12-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=b532f5b0c0bc909763534f9f2544cf8b
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=trump-barks-but-the-caravan-moves-on&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=trump-barks-but-the-caravan-moves-on&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/liteforex-blog-trump-12-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=da23bd6650a507bd8f2540baf567d011