+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-11-03"
description = "is today price reach $1756/1721 or $1808/1818?"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "is today price reach $1756/1721 or $1808/1818?"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-11-03

2021-11-03

SPOT GOLD: $1756/1721 or $1808/1818 today?Piyush Ratnu

Today Gold price achieved D1 SMA 50 (1778) after crashing from H4 SMA
50. 1756/1721 and 1808-1818/1832 levels are the next major Support and
Resistance zone. Tapering related statements can push gold up or down
$45-90. All three major equity indexes in the US hit new record highs on
Tuesday, and GOLD once again made a failed attempt to achieve $1800 mark
and crashed back from $1796 Resistance zone to $1778 Support zone today
morning.

The FOMC meeting for November began yesterday and will conclude today.
Most importantly, it will be the statement and following press
conference by Chairman Powell that will draw the most attention. The
statement will contain information about when the Federal Reserve will
begin tapering their $120 billion monthly asset purchases. The press
conference will clarify any ambiguities found within the statement
itself.

It is highly believed that the Fed will announce the onset of tapering
tomorrow. They have already defined that tapering will reduce asset
purchases by $15 billion each month. The reduction will be composed of
$10 billion of U.S. bonds and $5 billion of MBS. Since the Federal
Reserve has been buying $80 billion each month of U.S. debt instruments,
it will take a total of eight months to complete the tapering process.

That means that if they begin tapering in November, they will not
complete the tapering process until June 2022. It is also important to
note that they will not begin lift-off until they have completed
tapering.

##  **Worried foreign central banks boost gold reserves**

After sitting on the side-lines for much of last year, central bank
appetite for gold has resumed, in part due to inflationary pressures
globally along with disruptions in the energy market.

Russia recently reached a milestone record for its gold reserves, now
[ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/) fifth in the world for the size of its holdings. Russia now
holds well over 20% of its reserves in gold! This represents nearly
2,300 tons of gold now held by the totalitarian nation, and that figure
is likely to increase substantially in the years ahead.

Meanwhile, the central banks of Serbia, Hungary, Thailand, France, and
Germany have added gold to their reserves in recent months. Brazil even
bought 41.8 tons recently.

The heavy gold accumulation by central banks points to an ongoing shift
away from the Federal Reserve Note “dollar” as the global reserve
currency of choice and points to the ongoing shift in global economic
dynamics.

The decline and fall of the U.S. dollar as a world reserve currency
could mark a key turning point in financial [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/). Fiat currencies and
the debt instruments denominated in them may fall in tandem. Investments
in precious metals stand to rise.

Today is FED interest rate announcement and FOMC. In addition, this
Friday NFP and Unemployment rate will be published, which brings another
huge volatility in Gold price. This week is crucial and retail traders
might lose their principle amount if they are stuck in wrong direction.

###  **Analysing Relevant Data plays a crucial role in decision making
during such highly volatile economic events:**

  * Observe Resistance & Support zones
  * Observe Fibonacci Retracement zones
  * Observe Session shifts
  * Observe Dollar Index
  * Observe US10YT – US 10 Year Yield
  * Observe XAUXAG Ratio
  * Observe USDJPY price
  * Observe Yen strength
  * Observe US Dollar strength 
  * Observe COT on Spot GOLD
  * Gold council report regarding Supply and Demand stats of Gold
  * Observe Chairman Powell’s statement
  * Observe US Monetary Policy

###  **The next big day for the high volatility action in GOLD will be
NFP Day:**

  * NFP on 05 November, 2021
  * Participation rate on 05 November, 2021
  * Unemployment rate on 05 November, 2021

##  **Technical Analysis**

###  **As per the above H1 TF:**

 **Resistance zone:**

1789 | 1796 (1796 zone) | 1802 - 1806 (1808 zone) | 1812 (1818 zone)

 **Support zone:**

1786 – 1779 - 1773  (1777 zone) | 1769 - 1763

###  **As per past data:**

 **Resistance zone:**

1808/1818/1832/1866/1888

 **Support zone:**

1777/1735/1717/1685

 **SOC Parameters:**

H1 Over Sold

H4 Over Sold

D1 at 45.0

* * *

### Chart below: **Fibonacci retracement zones on H4 TF**

 ****

 **RISE** above **1796** : 23.6% FIB level + H4 SMA zone + Resistance 2:
a strong zone of retracement before the further rise to 1808-1818 price
levels.

 **CRASH** till 1750: 1763 Last support level + 61.8% at **1756** : a
strong zone of retracement before the further crash to 1721 – 1717 price
levels.

###  **SMA 50 Levels:**

 **M30:** $ 1787.00

 **H1:** $ 1788.78

 **H4:** $ ****1793.65

 **D1:** $ 1780.45

All the above data needs to be observed carefully to derive co-relation
and trace the further movement of Gold in this and next week. The first
and second week in November has always proved itself as a choppy week.
Last year too due to elections, Gold crashed in first and second week
more than $100.

This week is unique in it’s own way since FED interest rate day, FOMC
and NFP – all three economic events of utmost importance are scheduled
this week. The only certainty about today's FOMC conclusion is that we
will see increased volatility as market participants attempt to read
between the lines of the Federal Reserve statement and chairman Powell's
press conference.

I wish you ALL THE BEST for today!

 _ **WARNING:** Information on these pages contains forward-looking
statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Markets and instruments
profiled on this page are for informational purposes only and should not
in any way come across as a recommendation to buy or sell in these
assets. You should do your own thorough research before making any
investment decisions. Piyush Ratnu does not in any way guarantee that
this information is free from mistakes, errors, or material
misstatements. It also does not guarantee that this information is of a
timely nature. Investing in Open Markets involves a great deal of risk,
including the loss of all or a portion of your investment, as well as
emotional distress. All risks, losses and costs associated with
investing, including total loss of principal, are your responsibility.
The author will not be held responsible for information that is found at
the end of links posted on this page. The author do not provide
personalized recommendations. The author makes no representations as to
the accuracy, completeness, or suitability of this information. The
author will not be liable for any errors, omissions or any losses,
injuries or damages arising from this information and its display or
use. The author is not a registered investment [advisor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/expert-advisor/) and nothing in
this article is intended to be investment advice._

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )