+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-08"
description = "efficient Forex pattern"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "efficient Forex pattern"
type = "post"
+++

April 8, 2020

April 8, 2020

Diamond will put the things rightDmitri Demidenko

##  **Use of the popular Forex pattern**

The old ways are the best ways. The patterns described in Thomas
Bulkowski’s best-selling Encyclopedia of Chart Patterns are many years
old but they are still efficient and help traders to understand what is
really going on in the market. My own experience suggests that such
patterns as [Expanding wedge][1] and [ Diamond bottom (top)][2] are some
of the most efficient patterns in technical analysis. Why not try to
forecast a future movement of [EUR/USD][3] using them?

 ** _Expanding wedge is a pattern which includes a set of increasing
maximums and decreasing minimums._**  We can’t speak of a clear trend in
this case as it implies unidirectional extremums. **_There’s a fight for
the initiative in the market, which is confirmed with increased trade
volumes._**  It’s what we saw in the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) chart of [EUR/USD][3] in
February and March.

 **Expanding wedge in EUR/USD chart**

![LiteForex: Diamond: efficient Forex pattern][4]

Once the pattern has fully formed, start building a strategy. A pullback
to wave 4-5 to fibo levels of 23.6%, 38.2%, 50% and 61.8% is used for
selling. The optimum scenario is a retracement of quotes to the previous
corrective level, with a stop placed at the higher level. In our
example, short positions were supposed to be opened from 1.1065 with a
protective order at 1.1165.

Still, there can be a period of consolidation after a period of an
active fight between bulls and bears. The [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s aren’t sure who the
final winner is. **_As a result, trade volumes fall_** , and Convergent
wedge starts forming in the chart. Its combination with Expanding bottom
(top) forms a Diamond. The pattern is often irregularly shaped, but we
all know that nothing is perfect, both in life and in the market.

 **Diamond in EUR/USD chart**

![LiteForex: Diamond: efficient Forex pattern][5]

Traders haven’t been sure so far that April’s low is the last one. If
one or a few more extremums form, the pattern will require redrawing. At
the same time, the current situation demands that **_volumes be closely
observed._**  If they soar at the breakout of the diagonal support
(resistance), a short (long) position should be opened. A protective
stop order should be placed at the corrective maximum (minimum) and the
targets should be set based on harmonious trading principles.

In our example with [EUR/USD][3], a breakout of the support near
1.076-1.077 and a closure of the bar below it, in the presence of high
volumes, will point to the continuation of EUR/USD’s fall to a target of
127.2% based on AB=CD pattern.  It’s located near 1.05. And it’s where
the USA and other G7 countries will start currency interventions,
according to BofA Merrill Lynch.

 **Diamond and AB=CD patterns in EUR/USD chart**

![LiteForex: Diamond: efficient Forex pattern][6]



Inversely, if [EUR/USD][3] bulls manage to consolidate, bring the quotes
to the resistance at 1.0965 and break it, a classic version of Diamond
bottom will form. The target at 127.2% based on AB=CD pattern will let
EUR/USD buyers hope that the pair may grow to 1.126. Let me remind you
about **_increased volumes on the breakout bar, its closure above the
diagonal resistance and probability of consolidation. If it happens,
we’ll have to replot Diamond._**

 **Diamond Bottom and AB=CD patterns in EUR/USD chart**

![LiteForex: Diamond: efficient Forex pattern][7]

Thus, [EUR/USD][3] moved to the stage of doubts after the fight for
initiative was over. The spring is compressed and can go off at any
time. All the better! The most interesting things are yet to come.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][8]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][9] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Diamond will put the things right][10]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/coyote-tactics-the-expanding-wedge-will-show-the-way/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/forex-drawing-a-rhombus/
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/eurusd1-08-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=3e2d8662154babbac7cbc1fcebce0d05
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/eurusd2-08-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=075c6be9aa6582db813a47ed14a46be8
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/eurusd3-08-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=2483be06648a91de04a0f36a62be9f58
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/eurusd4-08-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=2ae81ed091b744b1623b55d112df453b
   8. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=diamond-will-put-the-things-right&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=diamond-will-put-the-things-right&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/liteforex-blog-strategy-08-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=3595ca57d66e319f20691491c555d87e