+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-16"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 16, 2020

June 16, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.06.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

Oil price is being corrected down in the middle-term uptrend. The
correction target is likely to be the test of the trend key support
[31.01 - 30.11]. Once the zone is tested, I recommend entering buy
trades according to the pattern with the target at the high of last week
+ Target Zone 5 [41.67 — 40.92].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.06.2020][1]

The short-term chart displays a contradiction between the short-term and
the medium-term trends. The local trend is up. The key support 35.51 -
35.06] was tested last Friday and yesterday, but it was held up by
buyers.

Now, buyers are trying to take control and break through the intraday
resistance Additional Zone [36.81 – 36.59]. If they succeed, there will
be a double bottom pattern to buy.

If Additional Zone is held down by sellers, one could enter sell trades
in the correction down to the yesterday’s low.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.06.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [35.51 - 35.06]. TakeProfit: 40.00, Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [36.81 - 36.59]. TakeProfit: 34.41. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

There was a buy entry for gold according to the false breakout pattern
yesterday. The price was corrected down to the 50% Fibonacci
retracement, next, it rebounded up and is now trading above the level. I
recommend holding middle-term buy positions up to the target at May’s
high.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.06.2020][4]

The gold short-term trend is also up. Yesterday, traders tried to draw
the price down to the trend key support [1698.9 – 1694.3]. But the try
failed.

Instead of reaching IZ, the price rolled back to the support at
Additional Zone [1721.7 – 1719.4], and the US session closed the price
above the zone.

The price is now trading between two important zones, the support and
the resistance [1729.3 – 1727.0]. To enter purchases in the short-term
trend, traders need to break out the resistance and consolidate the
price above.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.06.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:  **

Hold up trades entered at level 1705.6. TakeProfit: 1764.4. StopLoss:
1687.2.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EUR/USD has tested the key support of the medium-term uptrend at
[1.1240 – 1.1222], which encouraged buyers. The price has rebounded up
from the support. There is not yet a buy pattern, however. Expect either
a buy pattern or the trend reversal down.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.06.2020][7]

As it is clear from the short-term timeframe, the euro is trading down
in the short term. Yesterday, traders were testing the trend key
resistance [1.1312 – 1.1303]. The price wasn’t consolidated above the
zone.

The pair is now trading above the resistance zone, so, it is not yet
relevant to enter sell trades. Especially since there is no sell
pattern.

If the US session closes the price above the zone, the short-term trend
will turn up, and it will be relevant to buy with the target in the
upper Target Zone [1.1412 – 1.1394].

If the price rolls back below the resistance, we shall look for a sell
entry according to the pattern with the target at the low of June 12.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.06.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:   **

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1312 - 1.1303].
TakeProfit: 1.1215. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.06.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_160620_1.png?w=30&s=4732666d162b5d18542d064bff93def6
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_160620_2.png?w=30&s=e3f1fe17c72d088e55232832b0bae945
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_160620_1.png?w=30&s=86f7c339aa3d4094b72c8c3c73c4d1f9
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_160620_2.png?w=30&s=b210f67e2ca677a4e393deeac03eb19b
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_160620_1.png?w=30&s=f9a994d59018faad32d72525a966a873
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_160620_2.png?w=30&s=7eaecb0b2b66bf09bde4a23113f3df58
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-16062020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-16062020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_137.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=1af8d8b0c7dfb11d7b53556939ee54e6