+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-16"
description = "AUD/USD forecast for 16.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "AUD/USD forecast for 16.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 16, 2020

June 16, 2020

Hedge funds cut the teeth on the AussieDmitri Demidenko

## Open AUD/USD positions according to Australia’s jobs report

Averaging is an extremely dangerous technique. Only a newbie knows about
it. However, the desire to breakeven a losing trade sometimes lets down
even a professional trader. The attempt of hedge funds to increase
shorts on the Australian dollar as the price is growing could turn into
a disaster. The [AUD/USD][1] pair was 28% up from the lows hit in March.
The AUD bulls were a little discouraged in the week ended June 12 by the
sell-offs in the US stock market amid the concerns about the second wave
of COVID-19. The correction will hardly be deep, and the restoration of
the AUD uptrend can cause much stress to speculators.

 **Dynamics of AUD/USD and speculative positions on the Australian
dollar**

![LiteForex: AUD/USD forecast for 16.06.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Hedge funds bet on many factors negative for the Aussie. The first since
the 1990s recession of the Australian economy, the escalation of the US-
China trade war, the introduction of China’s import tariffs on
Australian goods because of discontent over Canberra’s allegations of
the coronavirus laboratory origin. All of this isn’t working yet. China
buys about 60% of the world's iron ore, with two-thirds of the supply
coming from Australia. Following a drop in the February-March period,
iron ore imports increased by 19% in April, and the price has been 25%
since early April. The growth of the iron ore price is one of the major
[AUD/USD][1] growth drivers.

 **Dynamics of AUD/USD and iron ore**

![LiteForex: AUD/USD forecast for 16.06.2020][3]

 _Source: Trading Economics_

It is not beneficial for China to boost import tariffs. First, the price
of domestic consumption will increase. Second, the US can increase its
import tariffs as a retaliation. Third, Canberra tries to settle down
the matter with the accusations against China.

The Australian dollar is the simplest means to represent the risk
appetite of the Forex traders, that is why the rally of the US stock
indexes supports the [AUD/USD][1] bulls. The potential down correction
looks limited as the RBA is not willing to introduce negative interest
rates. The central bank expressed no concerns about the strengthening of
the Australian dollar. Besides, a deep correction of the S&P 500 is not
what Donald Trump wants. According to HSBC, the Aussie should be up to
$0.75 in 2021 due to the combination of three factors: stimulating
fiscal and monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), the growth of the global risk appetite, and
the record surplus of the Australian foreign trade. The Australian
dollar always grew after global recessions in the past. So, it may do
the same in the future.

In my opinion, the consolidation or the rally of the US stock market
will support the [AUD/USD][1] rise towards the [target at 0.72 defined
earlier][4]. It is not yet too late to take part in the [LiteForex
contest][5] devoted to its 15th anniversary and buy the Aussie. One
could enter purchases if Australia’s jobs report, which should be
published on June 18, is strong. Bloomberg experts expect the employment
to contract by 125,000. However, if the Australian employment data in
May are as strong as the US jobs report, the hopes for the V-shaped
recovery of Australia’s economy should send the [AUD/USD][1] up.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

![Hedge funds cut the teeth on the Aussie][8]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/audusd-position-16-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=a2da96da15d24aa14ca360cbc43eedaa
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/iron-audusd-16-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=09e095ffe72fe073620c0f02650ff5a8
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/aussie-works-wonders/
   5. www.liteforex.com/contests/dream-draw/
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=hedge-funds-cut-the-teeth-on-the-aussie&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=hedge-funds-cut-the-teeth-on-the-aussie&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-audusd-16-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=f1133e2b33ac6f6ce2b7350d7e843f18