+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-16"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 16.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 16.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 16, 2020

June 16, 2020

Fed puts the dollar in placeDmitri Demidenko

## The EUR/USD may continue its rally up to 1.138 and break through the
June’s highs

Donald Trump wants to control everything but the financial markets are
ruled by the Fed. The president criticized the central bank for a too
grim forecast, but this was necessary. Jerome Powell and his colleagues
do not rule out a V-shaped recovery of the US economy, which was voiced
by Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan. However, the basic scenario is
still the Nike-shaped recovery of the US GDP. If so, there will be
needed huge volumes of monetary stimulus. Once the Fed added more
liquidity, the S&P 500 has been up, which has sent the US dollar down.

The Fed has outlined its corporate bond-buying program and the detail of
lending to commercial companies. The central bank will create a
corporate bond portfolio that is based on a broad, diversified market
index of U.S. corporate bonds. First, it will calculate an aggregate for
the entire $9.6-trillion market, according to which it is planned to
purchase the securities. According to Morgan Stanley, the Fed will buy
corporate bonds for $385 billion, BofA Merrill Lynch believes that it
will be about $419 billion. At the same time, the Federal Reserve is
willing to give about $ 600 billion in loans to businesses with up to
15,000 employees and incomes up to $5 billion. Banks, which give them
money, can sell up to 95% of loans to an investment agency organized by
the Boston Federal Reserve

The US stock market has rebounded after the Fed’s announcement, and this
is not surprising. The stock indexes usually rise amid ultra-easy
monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), economic expansion, low loan rates, and positive
corporate reports. There could be problems with the US corporate
reporting, however, if the GDP rebound is V-shaped, the middle- and
long-term outlook for the stock market will be rather positive. The rise
of the US stock indexes has weakened the US dollar, which is also
natural. Since May, the negative correlation between these two assets
has been increasing steadily.

 **Dynamics of the U.S. dollar and S &P 500**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 16.06.2020][1]

 _Source: Trading Economics_

A stronger negative correlation results not only from the greenback’s
safe-haven status but also from the Fed’s effective measures to satisfy
the foreign demand for the dollar. This required less money than during
the previous recession. In the first week of June, the foreign central
banks acquired $447 billion through swap lines, in 2008-2009, it was
$583 billion.

The lower demand for the greenback reduced hedging costs for the
purchases of the US assets. The European [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s can afford to resume
the favorite strategy of the S&P 500 longs and USD shorts. As a result
of lower hedging costs, the [EUR/USD][2] looks much undervalued.

 **Dynamics of EUR/USD and hedging costs**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 16.06.2020][3]

 _Source: Nordea Markets_

In my opinion, if level 3000 is the S&P 500 local low, and the stock
index resumes the rally or starts consolidation, the [EUR/USD][2] pair
should break through the June’s high. I suggest holding the [longs
entered in the zone of 1.122-1.124][4] up and adding new purchases.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Fed puts the dollar in place][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/dollar-spx-16-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=1ac848b3b92cd2479459807e58c6637c
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/hedging-cost-eurusd-16-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=efbd9e199d1863b6ce991859d5a5929f
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-wakes-fears-up/
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=fed-puts-the-dollar-in-place&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=fed-puts-the-dollar-in-place&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-16-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=65ee74052daf584691376836f8543ab3