+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-16"
description = "Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 16, 2020

June 16, 2020

NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Practical application.Mikhail Hypov

## Trading plan based on the NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Wave
analysis. Pattern identification. Entering a trade at the third wave and
take the profit.

Dear Friends!

In the previous lessons, I covered the theoretical aspects of the
NeoWave theory. Now, I want to show its practical application to real
trading. I will demonstrate all the peculiarities of the NeoWave trading
system used in cryptocurrency trading.  If you aren’t yet familiar with
the NeoWave theory, I recommend covering all the articles, starting from
the first one, in the NeoWave series based on Glenn Neely’s studies:

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][1].

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels. ][2]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][3]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][5]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][6].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][10].

[NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][11]

[NeoWave. Part 12. Impulsions and the rules to analyze impulse wave
patterns. ][12]

[NeoWave. Part 13. Corrections. Rules to identify a correction.][13]

[NeoWave. Part 14. Triangles. Rules to identify triangles.][14]

[NeoWave. Part 15. Basic and advanced rules of logic to analyze
triangles][15].

[NeoWave. Part 16. Extended rules of logic for Flats and Zigzags.][16]

[NeoWave. Part 17.][17][ ][17][Extended rules of logic for complex
corrective patterns.][17]

[NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance. Compaction
procedures. Power ratings.][18]

[NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels applied in trending impulses][19].

[NeoWave. Part 20. Application of progress labels to terminal
impulses.][20]

[NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships.][21]

[NeoWave. Part 22. Progress labels in flat corrections][22].

[NeoWave. Part 23. Progress labels in triangles.][23]

[NeoWave. Part 24. Progress labels in triangles and zigzags.][24]

[NeoWave. Part 25. Fibonacci relations and correction identification
with channeling][25].

[NeoWave. Part 26. Missing Waves and Emulations][26].

### Trading plan

The NeoWave Trading system suggests analyzing the market situation
according to the following plan:

1\. Analysis of monowaves (in some cases this step can be omitted if it
is a brief analysis of patterns of higher degree, or if the Elliott
pattern is obvious):

  * Analysis of monowaves according to the rules of retracement;
  * Making structure lists;
  * Identification of patterns and choosing relevant structure labels;
  * Placing structure labels;

2\. Analysis of patterns based on the main rules of impulsions.

3\. Analysis based on the rules of logic, equality, alternation (it is
not always possible to carry out at the stage of the pattern formation).

4\. Application of progress labels.

5\. Channeling and the prediction of patterns’ development using
Fibonacci relationships.

Well, let me show you how the NeoWave trading strategy works on an
example.

### Analysis of monowaves

To understand the market situation, we need to analyze monowaves
preceding the current monowave and after that combine them into Elliott
patterns. To analyze monowaves, we shall apply the Retracement rules
that I covered in the following parts:

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][3]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][5]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][6].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][10].

[NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][11]



![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][27]

First, we need to select the earliest monowave among those we are going
to analyze. The red zone in the chart marks the first monowave that we
will analyze, and the blue area marks the last complete monowave. I also
assigned a number to each wave of the studied interval. There 7 waves in
total.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][28]

We shall mark the first wave that we will analyze as m1, the next wave
on the right is m2. Next, we shall calculate the relations between m2
and m1. To find the ratios quickly, I will use Fibonacci retracements.
To find out the retracement rule relevant in the current market
situation, we shall use the table of rules presented in [Part 3][3].

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][29]

In our example, m2 will be 61.8% of m1. Therefore, according to the rule
table, we shall apply the third retracement rule.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][30]

As m0 is between 61.8% of 100% of m1, so, condition (с) of rule 3 is
applied to our case (I covered this rule in detail [here][5]).

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][31]

It is clear that m3 is shorter than m1, it is completely retraced during
a longer period of time than it took to form. So, according to paragraph
5 of rule 3 (c), m1 is likely to be the a-wave or the c-wave of a zigzag
that is an element of a more complex correction. We place “:F3/(:s5)” at
the end of m1. However, as m5 (plus one time unit) is completely
retraced by m4 faster than m4 took to form, we will remove “(:s5)” from
the structure list.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][32]

In the same way, I analyzed monowaves 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, labeling each
wave with m(-2), m(-1), m(0), m(1), m(2), and identifying then the
relevant rule and condition. Next, I put the relevant structure labels,
according to the rules. I won’t again describe this process in detail,
as it is similar for each wave, besides, I described the example for
each rule (see the links to the retracement rules above).

As a result, I have the following structure lists:

1\. Rule 3 (с), paragraph 5 “:F3”.

2\. Rule 2 (e), paragraph 1 “:5”.

3\. Rule 4 (d), categories i and ii, paragraph 5 “:F3/:c3”.

According to paragraph 5 of the (d) condition of rule 4, the most likely
structure label is “:F3”. Therefore, we shall put brackets around “:c3”
as less likely.

4\. Rule 6 (d), no paragraph is met.

5\. Rule 1 (b), paragraph 1 - “:s5”.

6\. Rule 1 (b), paragraph 1 - “x:c3?” (this structure label I discovered
in the analysis of wave 6).

Rule 7 (d), paragraph 4 - “:c3”.

7\. Rule 5, condition (a), no paragraph is met.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][33]

As the current results do not suggest anything (we haven’t identified a
few structure labels, and the present sequence doesn’t look like any
known Elliott pattern), we shall combine waves 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 into a
single conditional wave.

In this case, we have a three-wave pattern which would meet the
following requirements:

  1. Rule 2, condition (d), paragraph 1 - “:5”.
  2. Rule 5, condition (c), paragraph 7 - “:F3”.
  3. Rule 2, condition (c), paragraph 2 - “(:5/:s5)”.

Now, the sequence of structure labels is more clear. This sequence
looks, at first glance, looks like a zigzag. Due to a particular
structure sequence “:5 – :F3 – :5”, we can be sure that this is a zigzag
(you learn more about [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) identify wave patterns using structure
labels [here][18]).

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][34]

As you know from the previous training articles, a zigzag may be
followed by the linking wave X in a complex pattern. In the case of a
simple pattern, a zigzag is followed by the first wave of an impulse. As
the third wave is labeled as “:5/:s5”, it means that there could be a
should (X) wave with the continuation of the correction, or a new
impulse (I wrote about structure labels in detail [here][2]). As a rule,
the (X) wave is the shortest in the sequence. However, it is clear from
the above chart that this condition is not met. So, there is likely to
be developing a new impulse, namely, its first wave. To clarify the type
of the new impulsive formation, we need more data.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][35]

When there appears a new local high, we can assume wave (2) is about to
complete. We shall draw the base channel line across the zero level and
end of wave (2).

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][36]

The further situation suggests that the local low is not the end of wave
(2), it is just wave (A) of the first flat. Besides, the entire second
wave is a double flat. So, according to the principles described in
[part 21][21]. we shall move the baseline to the actual endpoint of wave
(2), which coincides with the end of the second zigzag in the double
flat. How do we understand that the second zigzag has ended? This
becomes clear based on the last wave, the highest point that has
exceeded the high of wave (B).

### Entry rules

Ahead of the third wave, it is time to enter the first trade. So, I will
write about the entry rules that we should observe when opening a buy
trade:

If you are going to enter a long trade, I recommend you to follow the
following rules:

  1. The downtrend turns up.
  2. A buy entry is put at the bar close if the close price is higher than the opening price.
  3. A buy entry is put if the current close is higher than the previous close.

Likewise, I recommend entering a short trade is the following conditions
are met:

  1. The uptrend turns down.
  2. A sell entry is put at the bar close if the close price is lower than the opening price.
  3. A sell entry is put if the current close is lower than the previous one.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][37]

In our example, the bar marked with the blue oval meets all the
requirements for a long trade:

  1. The downtrend turns up.
  2. The close price is higher than the open.
  3. The current close is higher than the previous close.

Besides, as I have already mentioned, the second zigzag ends, and so,
the correction is more likely to complete. This suggests that there
should start a new impulse in the position of the third wave. Therefore,
once the bar marked above closes, we shall enter a buy trade.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][38]

A stop loss is set at the zero level of the large impulse, this level is
marked with the red line in the chart.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][39]

When the presumed third wave breaks through the level where the first
wave ends (the yellow line in the chart), we should be more confident
that this is the third wave. Now, we can enter another long, as the
price must continue rising.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][40]

At this moment we need to set the target. Note that wave (1) has a
rather complex structure. Besides, the following flat correction signals
that the uptrend is strong. Therefore, we can assume that the first wave
is an extension. If so, according to the Fibonacci relations described
in [part 21][21], wave (3) should not exceed 61.8% of wave (1). I marked
the zone where wave (3) can be developing by the green area in the
chart. The upper border of the zone will be the level for a take profit.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][41]

In fact, the third wave should end exactly at the level of 61.8%. When
this level is reached, and there starts a new bear trend, we should
close the long trades we entered earlier. Besides, you should take into
account that the 61.8% level is the limit. If you notice the trend
reversing before the third wave reaches the 61.8% level, you should exit
the trade earlier, without waiting until the price reaches the target
zone.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][42]

Now we can analyze wave (1) of the presumed impulse. According to rule 1
(c), we should put “:5” in the structure list of wave (1). Remember, the
structure list of a trending impulse should be (you can learn more about
structure lists in [part 18][18]):

:5 – :F3 – :?5 – :F3 – :L5.

Therefore, we have another indirect evidence that the assumption about
the formation of an impulse pattern is correct. Besides, this is likely
to be a trending impulse. This assumption can be confirmed only when
wave (4) completes.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][43]

The above chart displays wave (4) of the impulse unfolding. It is not
usually recommended to enter a short trade at the fourth wave amid the
high volatility and unpredictability of the price behaviour. However, if
you still want to enter a short, you could do it after the second
consecutive down bar closes (it is marked with the blue oval on the
above chart). A stop-loss, in this case, is set above the peal of the
third wave, and the target profit is identified using the Fibonacci
relationships, or you can set a take profit around the basic line of the
channel.

However, in our case, the down move is going to be small. This is
signalled by two signs. As you see from the chart, the second wave is
rather time-consuming and has a complex structure. This corresponds to
the progress labels rules described in [part 19][19]. So, according to
the alternation rule, which I covered in detail in [part 12][12], the
fourth wave should have a simpler structure than the second on, and it
is likely to be shorter. The rules of progress labels also mean that the
fourth wave of the impulse should have an extended first wave, is also
likely to be equal or shorter than wave (2).

Besides, according to the Fibonacci relations described in [part
21][21], if the second wave is the largest among the corrective waves
(wave (2) is likely to be the longest), wave (4) should be 38.2% or
61.8% of wave (2). In rare instances, wave (4) could be 100% of wave
(2). On the chart, the presumed levels of 61.8% and 100% are marked with
the green and grey zones (if we entered a trade, the target profit would
be at the level of 61.8%). Therefore, in our case, the target profit for
a short trade should be set at these levels. However, the short entry,
already not being perfect, is worsened by the fact that the second bar
in fact has reached the first target at 0.618. So, the profit/risk ratio
is less than 1 if the target is at 100% and the stop is above the peak
of the third wave. In this situation, it is not relevant to enter a
short trade.

Here, I need to note that Fibonacci relationships are not mandatory.
However, in addition to the rule of alternation, which also indirectly
suggests that wave (4) should be small, it provides quite a strong
signal.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][44]

As you see, wave (4) is likely to have ended at the level of 100% of
wave (2). This pivot point is likely to be the final one (or the low of
wave (4) as 100% could hardly be exceeded). I have corrected the channel
baseline on the chart, drawing it across the end of wave (4). I have
also drawn the upper channel line across the endpoints of waves (1) and
(3). I covered channelling techniques applied to an impulsion with the
extended first wave in [part 21][21].

By the way, at the stage of an impulsion's formation, we can analyze the
second wave to check if it meets the retracement rules. Unfortunately,
it does not meet any of the conditions of rule 6 (this is the relevant
retracement rule as wave (3) falls between 161.85 and 261.8% of wave
(2)). However, we earlier found out that the second wave is a double
flat, and so, it is a three. As it is the first segment of the sequence,
the structure labels is “:F3” or the first three.

Therefore, there is the following sequence of structure labels:

:5 – :F3 – ? – ? – ?

Remember, a trending impulse has the following structure:

:5 – :F3 – ?5 – :F3 – :L5

Therefore, the current structure labels confirm the assumption that
there is forming a trending impulse.

Now, let us move on and analyze wave (5). We already know that wave (3)
is 61.8% of wave (1). According to the basic rule of the impulse
construction that should be observed in all cases of impulsions, the
third wave cannot be the shortest. So, wave (5) should not exceed 100%
of wave (3). This is also stated by the progress labels rules that are
covered in [part 19][19]. According to the rules of progress labels
applied to trend impulses, the fifth wave of an impulse is likely to be
the shortest in the sequence.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][45]

In the above chart, the zone of a possible move of wave (5) is
highlighted with the yellow area (38.2% is the Fibonacci relation that
may or may not be observed) and the grey area, which marks 100% of wave
(3). Besides, We should also note the upper border of the channel. The
fifth wave of course may break it, but taking into account that it is
expected to be short, it will hardly thrust far out of the triangle.
Therefore, the most likely zone and the target profit level will be the
blue oval area in the chart.

In general, an optimal entry point for a long is the moment when the
second upward bar closes. This section is highlighted with the pink oval
as an example in the above chart. As for a stop loss level, it will be
relevant to place it around the endpoint of wave (4). The take profit
for wave (5), according to the trading system, will be the upper border
of the channel.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][46]

At the point, marked with the blue oval, we assume the endpoint of wave
(5). Let us study the signals. The fifth wave has exceeded the level of
38.2%, and the bullish momentum is quite strong, so wave (5) should not
end at this level. Next, wave (5) breaks through the upper channel
border. At this point, a soon conclusion of the fifth wave is already
obvious.

Note that the monowave roughly outlined exceeded the channel border, but
bars didn’t. If we analyzed this sequence based on the systems by
Williams and Prechter, we would surely say that the up move has stopped
at the upper channel border.

After the channel is broken, there starts the sideways move, which is
the further evidence that wave (5) ends. So, we should exit the trade at
this point, as the price will hardly go higher.

Next, we shall identify the structure label for wave (3) of the impulse,
according to the rules of retracement. According to paragraph 2 of rule
2 (b), wave (3) should be labelled as “:5”. Therefore, there is the
following sequence of the structure labels:

:5 – :F3 – :5 – ? – ?

It corresponds to the structure labels of a trending impulse:

:5 – :F3 – ?5 – :F3 – :L5.

Therefore, the chance that the current interpretation of the market
situation is correct increases. According to the Elliott wave theory,
after an impulsive pattern completes, there should start a correction.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][47]

A sell position is (blue oval in the chart) is opened after the second
bearish bar closes. Here, we do not expect until the second consecutive
down bar closes, as the strong down move, and the signals described
above mean that the correction is almost 100% likely to start. A stop
loss is set at the level where the fifth wave of the impulse ends (red
horizontal line).

According to the rules progress labels, if wave (5) is not extended, the
following correction should retrace it more than 100%. So, the first
target will be at the level of 100% of wave (5) (the lower border of the
grey zone in the chart).

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][48]

While the corrective pattern is unfolding it is clear that the price
very quickly breaks through the level of 100%. Once the level is broken,
we should exit the short position in case there forms a strong (B) wave.
I do not recommend trading at the (B) wave as it can be both longer and
much shorter than the (A) wave. Besides, the (B) wave greatly determines
the type of structure forming.

As for the inner retracements, we shall further analyze the structure of
waves to obtain a more accurate clue. However, the impulse must be
correctly interpreted, as it is clear in our case. We shall analyze the
following correction using the basic construction rules and Fibonacci
relationships.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][49]

At the stage when there appear two consecutive down bars, we can presume
that the (B) wave is about to end. As the correction has a rather simple
structure, a short correction is hardly a part of the complex wave (A).
The (B) is also likely to be complex.

Considering that the presumed wave (B) is less than 61.8% of wave (A),
there is likely to be forming a zigzag. Another signal that the (B) is
likely to have ended is the Fibonacci relationship, according to which
wave (B) should 38.2% of wave (A). It also indirectly confirms the
assumption that there is forming a zigzag and the (B) wave has ended.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][50]

At the second down bar, we enter a short trade (blue oval in the chart).
The end of the (B) wave should be a potential pivot point. According to
the Fibonacci retracement rules described in [part 25][25], wave (C) in
a zigzag is often 61.8%, or 100%, or 161.8% of wave (B). These relations
do not always work, however, they can be used as the reference for the
target profits. In the above chart, the zone of 61.8% is green, 100% is
grey, 161.8% is red.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][51]

While the (C) wave is unfolding there emerges a sideways move, at the
end of which, there are two consecutive up bars. Besides, this price
action emerges at the level of 38.2%. Such short (C) waves are typical
for truncated zigzags. So, I would recommend locking the position at
this stage (the zone to enter an opposite trade is marked with the blue
oval in the chart).

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][52]

Next, we see that the assumption of a truncated zigzag forming has been
wrong. Wave (C) is likely to end at level 61.8% (there could be small
deviations in the Fibonacci levels). When the second consecutive up bar
forms (the last for now) we exit the bear position. And we also have a
locked position that is marked with the horizontal pink line.

Next, there are the following possible scenarios:

  * Formation of the X wave that will be followed by another segment of the complex corrective pattern.
  * Formation of the (D) wave of a triangle. 
  * Formation of an upward Elliott pattern. 

All the [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) allow us to reduce the loss that is now being yielded by
the locked position.

Remember, according to the extended rules of logic that you can learn in
[part 16][16] when the (C) wave is shorter than wave (A), the entire
zigzag is almost always retraced by the following wave. Otherwise, the
following wave is the (X) wave. So, at this stage, while this wave is
yet unfolding, we shall presume that it is an (X) wave.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][53]

When the wave following the zigzag is forming, there appear two
consecutive down bars. This is an indirect sign of the trend reversal
and the end of the wave. However, it is too early to make a conclusion
that the wave is finishing. This is because there aren’t any Fibonacci
relations concerning the total length of all waves in the zigzag, which
are quite often in the case of the (X) wave.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][54]

In a short time, the up move continues which confirms my assumptions.
After that, there again two down bars. This happens at the level of
38.2% of the first zigzag, so, the wave is likely to be finishing.
According to the rules of logic, this is really an X-wave. So, the next
wave should be the segment of the double combination.

In this section, we should open the short position (blue oval in the
chart). A stop-loss will be put at the top of the wave (X) (horizontal
red line). Wave (A) of the second segment is 61.8% of the first zigzag.
So, we shall put a take profit at this level.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][55]

Next, when the price gets closer to level 61.8%, there is a sharp up
move and two consecutive up bars. So, we exit the short trade at the
second bar. Note that the two consecutive bullish bars appeared earlier,
however, they are now much higher than level 61.8%. Besides, a short
price rise in the previous cases did not suggest the possible trend
reversal.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][56]

Wave (B) is also likely to be finishing. It almost reaches 61.8% of wave
(A) of the second segment in the larger pattern, and there are two
consecutive down bars. The small size of the wave (B) suggests that the
second segment in the combination is also a zigzag.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][57]

At the beginning of the wave (C) of the second zigzag, we shall also
enter a short trade (blue oval). A stop loss is as usual at the top of
wave (B), and the potential targets are at the levels of 61.8%, 100%,
and 161.8% of the (A) wave of the second zigzag.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][58]

At the level of 100%, there forms a sideways move. However, there are
not two consecutive up bars. So, it is yet too early to exit the short.
If you like trading with the minimum risk, you can lock the position at
this stage.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][59]

The exit signal is sent when the trend reversal is obvious. We have
taken quite a good profit. If you opened a lock, you need to close it at
this level.

Like after the end of the second zigzag, the following scenarios are
possible:

  * Formation of the (X) wave that is followed by the next segment of the triple correction.
  * Formation of the (D) wave in a triangle.
  * Formation of the upward Elliott pattern. 

Remember, according to the extended rules of logic, the zigzag where the
(C) wave is the longest, has the weakest implications of all if it is
moving down. You can learn more about the extended rules of logic in
[part 16][16] in the NeoWave series. Such a zigzag is not likely to be
completely retraced unless the Zigzag completes a corrective phase or
the next wave (of the same degree) is more complex and time-consuming.
So, we need to expect the next wave to complete to identify its type.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][60]

The end of the wave being analyzed is spotted due to the trend pivot and
appearance of two consecutive down bars. This wave is likely to be
either wave (1) of the impulse following the zigzag or the (D) wave of a
triangle. The scenario suggesting the (X) wave is ruled out, as the
current wave is too big to be the (X) wave. It is 100% of wave (A). The
scenario of an impulse is also unlikely as corrective combinations often
end with a triangle.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][61]

An indirect confirmation of a triangle is obtained when we compare wave
(B) with the presumed wave (D). Wave (D) is 161.8% of wave (B). Such
relations are typical for the waves within an expanding triangle. You
can learn more about Fibonacci relationships within triangles in [part
25][25].

Now, let us identify the type of triangle unfolding. It is likely to be
expanding variation as each next wave is bigger than the preceding one.
Besides, as wave (B) is shorter than wave (A) this is an irregular
triangle. It is also likely to be a non-limiting variation, as the
trendlines of the channel meet at the point close to the beginning of
wave (A). You can learn more about triangles and their construction
rules in [part 14][14].

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][62]

After the second consecutive down bar closes, we shall enter a short
trade. A stop loss is set at the level that is a little higher than the
end of wave (D). According to the rules of progress labels for an
expanding irregular triangle, which you can learn in[ part 24][24],
waves (A) and (E) often relate by 161.8%. We shall use this ratio as a
potential target.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][63]

As you see, wave (E) ends at the level of 161.8% of wave (A). It is
signaled by the trend reversal, which is confirmed by the two
consecutive upward bars. At this stage, we shall exit the short trade.

![LiteForex: Practical application of the NeoWave theory by Glenn
Neely.][64]

A triangle within a complex pattern is usually the final segment. As the
presumed wave (2) fails to retrace all of wave (1), and wave (3) is much
bigger than wave (1), we can assume that the next pattern is an impulse.

So, we have been through the full algorithm of the market analysis,
starting from the preliminary analysis and the identification of wave
structures and finishing with the analysis of each wave and the detailed
identification of the entry points, stop loss and take profit levels.
Here, the NeoWave series is about to end. I hope this cryptocurrency
trading strategy will allow you to increase your profit and avoid errors
in the interpretation of Elliott waves.

It is high time you tested the theory in practice. Try to enter a trade
using the above algorithm for your trading instruments. Share your
results in the comments and help your colleagues with the analysis. If
you don’t yet trade, you can open both a demo and a real account here,
with  [LiteForex][65]. This broker offers the trading platform that is
well suited for the practical application of this trading system, as
well as many others. If you already trade with another broker, it is a
good time to change the company and join  [LiteForex][65]. If so, you
will have a real chance to win a house, a car, and many cool gadgets in
the [contest][66] with the total prize fund of 350 000 USD.

* * *

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][67]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][68] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Practical application.][69]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b/
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a/
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-10-retracement-rule-6-conditions-b-c-and-d/
   11. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-11-retracement-rule-7/
   12. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-12-impulsions-and-the-rules-to-analyze-impulse-wave-patterns/
   13. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-13-corrections-rules-to-identify-a-correction/
   14. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-14-corrections-triangles-rules-to-identify-triangles/
   15. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-15-basic-and-advanced-rules-of-logic-to-analyze-triangles/
   16. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-16-extended-rules-of-logic-for-zigzags-and-flat-corrections/
   17. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-17-extended-rules-of-logic-for-complex-corrections-exceptions-to-the-rules-2020-05-07/
   18. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-18-rules-of-complexity-and-balance-compaction-procedures-power-ratings/
   19. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-19-progress-labels-and-application-of-progress-labels-to-trending-impulses/
   20. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-20-application-of-progress-labels-to-terminal-impulses/
   21. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-21-channeling-in-impulses-and-fibonacci-relationships/
   22. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-22-progress-labels-and-their-application-to-flat-corrections/
   23. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-23-progress-labels-and-their-application-to-triangles/
   24. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-24-progress-labels-in-triangles-and-zigzags/
   25. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-25-fibonacci-relations-and-correction-identification-with-channeling/
   26. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-26-missing-waves-and-emulations/
   27. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=6ba5daa14e73bd231690127e3ef09933
   28. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=60576a2dd7f8bec7c235f5de13653c3c
   29. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=bd23279e244bdbf417741914e6bd8b3b
   30. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=d09ec6029312d719551dfb3a6d4e44a3
   31. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=07cbcd6b4c80cb162ad9053bc5d893a2
   32. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=b34b5047640c21615e41dc74c05adaa7
   33. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=3ea9800dbab347d51e8ef393aa780357
   34. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=19cbb51af0b76daf4576b4172bad2ba7
   35. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=47f62f5e31c71969328b4ea079c87b2e
   36. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_10.jpg?w=30&s=67d47417096709b816452c62546402c0
   37. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_11.jpg?w=30&s=051f258d8903d114485882c9e1a175a3
   38. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_12.jpg?w=30&s=69311d140b4670277b61a4ae1e17e932
   39. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_13.jpg?w=30&s=c694a55c9654e7572d6e33423201ef86
   40. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_14.jpg?w=30&s=2316b1bf6627cb63c860d91aca12d1cd
   41. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_15.jpg?w=30&s=5338c42b53c8066b470f4a010952a442
   42. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_16.jpg?w=30&s=ffafba097aac1c8dace85f54f83f63d2
   43. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=457e690d6b6c971615bb438f81799064
   44. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=355ef349262229618886e118afee6c43
   45. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=e16a8842b039458f47ca8ffa14d25383
   46. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=c07c811b633d50245b6aee87d1861ae1
   47. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=eecb974e36251bd09eb8b469c83acf6d
   48. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=9b954c43f7a25c55bfe2e0d66f527c31
   49. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=d6d0e34f28d4c8b480298713801bba54
   50. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=a33a5e0c3521657f52f67c983c6da75e
   51. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=c348b96f27a0687560d3bddadc616453
   52. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_10.jpg?w=30&s=951a3c85a79481b808cf7cc06d35725c
   53. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_11.jpg?w=30&s=3d6d405a59084b3ced0e1ba54b0d614d
   54. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_12.jpg?w=30&s=33f9895cd4ecf8515e51953ac4d3d83e
   55. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_13.jpg?w=30&s=6ff372197cd561540bebe99547292a87
   56. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_14.jpg?w=30&s=9b4de2433292928ced66583b44b802b8
   57. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_15.jpg?w=30&s=62b0d15f4e639d8cdc63425800b82af9
   58. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_16.jpg?w=30&s=4cec57e4506926e5cc6c5d146d9800fe
   59. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_17.jpg?w=30&s=1d6da6a00c0dad0df8c7815ae8edadc1
   60. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_23.jpg?w=30&s=24cb2f66e1e85b25275120c9d8fd5a21
   61. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_18.jpg?w=30&s=b241fa01cf169ba5e7514924b315208e
   62. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_19.jpg?w=30&s=5e20534c864d44b94393e11c9f744354
   63. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_21.jpg?w=30&s=facddbac49141a8e2be8bfc0f98018e4
   64. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.14/BTCUSD_hypov_22.jpg?w=30&s=542412e49f8b4e0ab2ceea982f89b337
   65. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=currency
   66. www.liteforex.com/contests/dream-draw/
   67. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-27-trading-strategy-based-on-the-neowave-theory-part-1&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   68. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-27-trading-strategy-based-on-the-neowave-theory-part-1&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   69. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.10/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=fb77643850b100793a212a1b6a033d63