+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-09"
description = "Euro price forecast October 9 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast October 9 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-09

2020-10-09

Euro uncovered the ECB tricks. Forecast as of 09.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The dovish tone of the ECB meeting’s minutes didn’t stop the EURUSD
bulls. Forex is focused on the US presidential election, following the
[S&P 500][1] trend. Let us discuss the market situation and make up a
[EURUSD][2] trading plan.

##  **Weekly** **euro** **fundamental forecast**

Looking at minutes of the ECB September meeting, I see the central
banks’ officials as magicians able to shock the markets with verbal
interventions, boosting QE, or an interest-rate cut. According to
Christine Lagarde, the regulator can do anything amid the pandemic to
set the [EURUSD][2] bulls back. The euro crashed following the minute's
release, but it rapidly went up. The market is not impressed by the
ECB’s tricks; [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s consider other matters.

The Governing Council noted that considering the euro-area economy's
openness, the further strengthening of the euro would hinder the GDP
recovery and inflation growth. The ECB is concerned by the speed of the
euro's growth rather than its current exchange rate. The euro’s rally
partially weakened the effect of the monetary stimulus, which
significantly affect consumer-price pressures. The euro-area inflation
expectations are very low and could further decline.

### Dynamics of trade-weighted euro and EURUSD

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

### Dynamics of inflation and inflation expectations in the euro area

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The ECB position is clear, and the central bank must be aiming at
sending the [EURUSD][2] down. However, the market is focused on the US
presidential election. The major currency pair is following the [S&P
500][1]. The stock market is rising amid the growing rating of Joe
Biden, I believe, rather than with the hope for a fresh fiscal stimulus
before November 3.

Donald Trump has again changed his mind. He says he shut down the talks
two days ago because they weren’t working out, and now, they are
starting to work out. They are discussing airlines and some other
issues. It is about a bigger deal than airlines. If the US president
hadn’t made a step forward, the House speaker Nancy Pelosi would have
ruled out the possibility of moving forward in helping the aviation
industry without broad agreement between Republicans and Democrats.

Investors are still focused on the fiscal stimulus, and it is natural.
The Fed’s tools are limited. According to Dallas Federal Reserve
President Robert Kaplan, Long-term interest rates are already low.
Trying to push them down further by adding to the $120 billion in bonds,
the Fed is already purchasing each month, would do little to help the
real economy. The primary dealers in Wall Street have the same opinion.
According to a Reuters survey, they forecast a decline in bond purchases
monthly pace to $84 billion and $25 in the second half of 2021 and 2022,
respectively.

###  **Weekly[EURUSD][2] trading plan**

In theory, the Fed should start monetary normalization, which will
support the US dollar. Nonetheless, the share of Wall Street Journal
experts who expect t that the US labor market will not return to full
employment before 2023 increased to 57%. It suggests the Fed will hold
ultra-low interest rates for a long time, being a bearish factor for the
greenback. In the short run, if the [EURUSD][2] breaks out the
resistance zone of 1.178-1.179, it could rise up to 1.1865 and 1.188.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-uncovered-the-ecb-tricks-forecast-as-of-09102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-uncovered-the-ecb-tricks-forecast-as-of-09102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus