+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-09"
description = "Markets got hooked on Trump"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Markets got hooked on Trump"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-09

2020-10-09

Is there life after Trump? Review as of 09.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

Forex is following US stock indexes and reacts only to the US
president’s freaks. Meanwhile, the Republican’s mental health seems to
be worsening on the eve of elections.

## Donald Trump doesn’t keep his promises, but the market will feel
gloomy without him

What do a Halloween pumpkin and Donald Trump have in common? They are
both orange and empty inside, and they will be thrown away in November.
The 45th US president used to be proud of growing stock indexes, saying
that the S&P 500’s rally reflects the US economy’s power. Now all is
different. The better the stock market feels, the fewer victory chances
the Republican has. The bulls appear to stop loving him:

> \- I like you so much.

>

> \- No problem, you’ll be fine! First, everyone likes me very much.
Then, not everyone. Then not so much. Then they dislike me. Then they
dislike me very much.

The stock indexes used to fear that Joe Biden’s victory would lead to a
tax rise, but now they are hoping for the Democrats’ large fiscal
stimulus.  What will happen in 6 months doesn’t really matter as people
will have money soon and start spending it. The USA will find someone
better for sure because someone worse doesn’t simply exist. However,
some would disagree.

> \- Donald, what are your good qualities?

>

> \- First, there are people worse than me.

There’s only one thing that Trump can do now: increase uncertainty,
which results in the USD’s short-term consolidation. First, he’s
diagnosed with COVID-19, then he recovers, then he stops the talks with
the Democrats, then he resumes them. Speaker of the US House of
Representatives Nancy Pelosi wonders if the president is sane. Or is it
just the steroids? In fact, four years are enough for getting used to
the White House tenant’s weird behaviour. The thing is, all mental
health issues get worse in autumn…especially ahead of elections.

> \- Doctor, I’m afraid everyone hates me! By the way, is it OK to be
calling you at night?

On the other hand, Trump may stir up envy:  the markets react only to
his freaks, ignoring the Fed’s calls for a larger relief package and the
ECB’s verbal interventions. The stock indexes are growing amid Trump’s
lower popularity, and falling on greater uncertainty that he provokes
from time to time. [EURUSD][1] is dancing to the [S&P 500][2]’s tune,
and [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s appear not to be caring about which currency will win or
lose after the Democrats’ victory.    They were buying the Russian
rouble and the Mexican peso amid Trump’s growing ratings in 2016, and
now they are doing the opposite.

The US got to know Trump better and wants him to get lost now. He did
not handle the Chinese issue, cut the negative balance of US foreign
trade, raise GDP to permanent 3% or build a wall at the Mexican border.
Political hassles, confrontation with the Congress, threats of
impeachment and, finally, pandemic caused much trouble to Trump.
Troubles are like tissues: you take one, and you get ten of them.

However, I must admit that the financial markets will be bored without
the 45th US president. Who else will proclaim Jerome Powell an enemy of
the US and accuse China of currency manipulations? Who will call Xi
Jinping “an incredible guy”, and then trample him in the mud because of
dishonest competition? So, should the Halloween pumpkin be kept for
another four years?

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of SPX in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=is-there-life-after-trump-review-as-of-09102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=is-there-life-after-trump-review-as-of-09102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus