+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-09"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, EURUSD for 12"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, EURUSD for 12"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-09

2020-10-09

Medium-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD 09.10.2020Alex Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest trading
signals for traders who trade in medium-term trends.

This week, oil has been rising from the trend key support [37.34 —
36.72].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for next week: USCrude analysis

The oil medium-term trend is up. This week, the oil price has been
rising from the trend key support [37.34 – 36.72] with a target at
Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. The target has been reached.

The further oil trend will depend on the buyers’ ability to break out
the resistance and consolidate above. If they succeed, the next upside
targets will be the high of August and Target Zone 6 [49.17 — 48.42].

If Target Zone 5 is held, the price will be corrected down to the key
support zone.

Based on the market analysis, I see two possible scenarios:

  1. Buy after the price breaks out TZ5.
  2. Sell according to the pattern in TZ 5 with the target at [37.34 — 36.72].

### [USCrude ][1]Trading tips for the upcoming week:

  1. After Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92] is broken out, buy on the retest TakeProfit: 43.50, Target Zone 6 [49.17 - 48.42].

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [37.34 - 36.72]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for next week: XAUUSD analysis

The Gold medium-term trend hasn’t changed much. The middle-term trend is
down, the price is trading under the resistance [1922.4 – 1913.1]. This
week, the price tested the triangle support level, broken-out earlier.
Next, the sell pattern has formed, a pin bar with a confirmation.

For next week, I recommend holding gold sell trades. A reasonable stop
loss is above level 1922.5. The target will be at the low of September
and Target Zone [1829.4 – 1820.1].

The border of the middle-term downtrend is in Target Zone [1951.0 —
1941.7].

### [XAUUSD][2] Trading tips for the upcoming week:

  1. Hold down sell trades entered in Target Zone [1922.4 - 1913.1]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [1829.4 - 1820.1]. StopLoss: 1927.0.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Target Zone [1951.0 - 1941.7]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [1829.4 - 1820.1]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/dollar price forecast for next week: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD middle-term correction continues. The correction target is to
test the key resistance of the middle-term downtrend [1.1832 – 1.1812].
After the zone test, I suggest looking for a sell pattern. When there is
a sell pattern, it will be relevant to sell the instrument with a target
at Target Zone 2 [1.1611 – 1.1591].

An alternative scenario to buy the euro. The price breaks out Target
Zone [1.1832 – 1.1812] and the middle-term trend turns up. It will work
out when the price consolidates above the zone at two US trading
sessions. If so, we shall enter buy trades in the strong support zones
with the target in the upper Target Zone 2 [1.2032 - 1.2012].

### [EURUSD][3] Trading tips for the upcoming week:

Sell according to the pattern in Target Zone [1.1832 - 1.1812].
TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [1.1611 - 1.1591]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-09102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-09102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus