+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-27"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 27, 2020

July 27, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.07.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Middle-term oil trend stays upward. The last week was trading below the
resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. Today the market opened in the
resistance.

If the zone is broken out, then the new growth target will be Target
Zone 6 [49.17 - 48.42]. If you see a trend reversal pattern, then sell
oil in correction up to the key support level [35.54 - 34.86].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.07.2020][1]

The short-term trend is upward. At the time, the price is testing a
strong support zone - Additional Zone [40.64 - 40.47]. I recommend
looking for longs from this zone according to the pattern with the
target in the maximum of the previous week.

If the Additional Zone is broken out, sell oil at the re-test of the
zone with a stop-loss above the zone and take-profit in the area of
Intermediary Zone [38.94 - 38.60]. Intermediary Zone is the key support
zone of the trend. Before it is broken out, longs according to the
patterns are the priority.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.07.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern from Additional Zone [40.64 - 40.47]. TakeProfit: 42.30. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. In case of breakout of Additional Zone [40.64 - 40.47] - sell. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [38.94 - 38.60]. StopLoss: above the next local high.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold has broken Target Zone 7 [1877.2 - 1871.2] and reached Target Zone
8 [1937.2 - 1931.2]. In case of breakout and consolidation above TZ 8,
the next target will be TZ 9 [1997.2 - 1991.2].

The border of the uptrend is now in the zone of [1862.5 - 1854.3].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.07.2020][4]

Short-term trend for gold is upward. At the time, the price is testing
Target Zone 3 [1943.9 - 1935.7]. If the resistance is broken out, the
next target will be Gold Zone 3 [1980.8 - 1976.7].

As for today, I recommend looking for longs in the trend from strong
support zones: Additional Zone [1924.0 - 1922.0] and Intermediary Zone
[1903.5 - 1899.4]. Wait for tests of these support zones and look for
patterns. The target is the maximum of the day.

Nothing suggests that gold could be shorted.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.07.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern from Additional Zone [1924.0 - 1922.0]. TakeProfit: 1944.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern from Intermediary Zone [1903.5 - 1899.4]. TakeProfit: 1944.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The euro has reached Target Zone 3 [1.1732 - 1.1714] in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of a
middle-term upward trend. The price is now trading below this resistance
zone. Nevertheless, the middle-term trend is upward, hence we may look
for a zone breakout and consolidation above. In that case, the next
target will be Target Zone 4 [1.1914 - 1.1896].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.07.2020][7]

The local short-term trend is upward. At the market opening today, Gold
Zone 2 [1.1649 - 1.1640] was broken out, and currently, the price is
going towards a strong resistance - Target Zone 3 [1.1749 - 1.1731].
Wait for a test of this zone and look at the traders' reaction.

Strong support zones have to be "pulled up" closer to the price. AZ is
now at [1.1679 - 1.1674], and the key support zone is at [1.1633 -
1.1624].

I recommend long positions but only according to the patterns. As for a
target, I suggest looking at today's maximum.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.07.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern from Additional Zone [1.1679 - 1.1674]. TakeProfit: 1.1722. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern from Intermediary Zone [1.1633 - 1.1624]. TakeProfit: 1.1722. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.07.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_270720_1.png?w=30&s=a543696b6b6bfb73cefed50ebcc0d91f
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_270720_2.png?w=30&s=91b2d3bb2ee6aef9936016e9c2c27c88
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_270720_1.png?w=30&s=bea94b2f29985535afc1530acc655ff3
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_270720_2.png?w=30&s=c54bcf9b3d30c115968127549d3ebce9
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_270720_1.png?w=30&s=7a331cbe9b8e154952003540d99a754f
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_270720_2.png?w=30&s=43656a33f8f3540376639eeae7dafa2e
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-27072020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-27072020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_17_1000x545.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=cfa2bd7c59a4e63baad9681185ef12c4