+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-27"
description = "Forecast for EURJPY for 27 July 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for EURJPY for 27 July 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 27, 2020

July 27, 2020

Forecast for EUR/JPY: Yen regained its authorityDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental forecast for the yen for today

### Japanese currency shows heightened sensitivity to cold war
escalation of the United States and China

If in the [EUR/USD][1] pair the intrigue has almost died, in the
[EUR/JPY][2] pair it is very much alive. It seemed that the rise of the
euro against the yen to the highest level since the beginning of June
allowed the bulls to feel comfortable in the longs formed according to
my July suggestion [from the level of 122][3], but not so fast! The
escalation of the Cold War between the United States and China in the
form of the mutual closure of consulates in Houston and Chengdu has
sharply increased the demand for safe-haven currencies. And judging by
the dynamics of [USD/JPY][2], the Japanese Yen managed to regain the
status of the most reliable asset in Forex.

If the main drivers of the strengthening of the euro are divergence in
economic growth, diversification of gold and foreign exchange reserves
and capital inflows to the securities market of the Old World, the yen
draws its strength from trade wars and various other wars. Especially if
the battles are related to Asia. In 2018-2019, the US dollar received
the main preferences due to the conflict between Washington and Beijing,
but in 2020 [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s have serious concerns that China will start
selling its treasury reserves and investing in the euro and European
bonds. The more the White House puts pressure on China, the higher the
risks of accelerating this process. Greenback remains out of the game,
it's time to pay attention to the yen.

In my opinion, no matter how much Donald Trump threatens Beijing, he
will not want to do what he did last year and the year before last.
Increasing import duties. In this situation, US stock indexes will begin
to draw the letter W, which in the run-up to the presidential election
means only one thing - the defeat of the current government. Thus, the
capacity for a correction in [EUR/JPY][2] looks limited. In contrast to
the capacity for an upward movement.

The euro enjoys the same trump cards against the yen as it does against
the US dollar. The epidemiological situation in Japan leaves much to be
desired, which creates the preconditions for divergence in economic
growth.

### Dynamics of COVID-19 infection rate in Japan and Germany

![LiteForex: Forecast for EURJPY for 27 July 2020][4]

 _Source: Trading Economics._

In the week of July 13, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s from Japan sold foreign stocks for a
record ¥5.9 trillion. They have taken profits after the rapid rebound of
the [S&P 500][5] from the March bottom levels and are likely to start
investing in European assets after the EU accepts the Franco-German
proposal. The capital flow from Asia to Europe has raised the risk of a
[EUR/JPY][2] reversal to the highest level since the beginning of 2018.

### Reversal risk dynamics for EUR/JPY

![LiteForex: Forecast for EURJPY for 27 July 2020][6]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The high likelihood of central banks diversifying their gold and foreign
exchange reserves in favour of the euro suggests that the regional
monetary unit will not sink deeply even if the US-China trade war
resumes. At the same time, the increased activity of commercial traders
selling euros in order to hedge positions on their main trades gives
reason to expect that the potential for rallies in [EUR/USD][1] and
[EUR/JPY][2] is far from being exhausted.

### Dynamics of EUR/USD and commercial traders positions

![LiteForex: Forecast for EURJPY for 27 July 2020][7]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Hold the [EUR/JPY][2] longs formed [from the level of 122][3] and
increase them at the breakout of resistance at 124-124.2 or at the
rebound from support levels at 122.6 and 122.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][8]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][9] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURJPY in real time mode

![Forecast for EUR/JPY: Yen regained its authority][10]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURJPY
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/yen-got-back-its-favorite-toy/
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/covid-japan-germany-27-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=66033d9ffdaccdc8bd0a64ce52af691a
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/euro-risk-reversal-27-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=e9c03cd003ae4bb3c2b8803b195fea42
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/euro-cftc-27-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=a5ef49ac26f136952f7a2a5bc01e9d69
   8. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forecast-for-eurjpy-yen-regained-its-authority&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forecast-for-eurjpy-yen-regained-its-authority&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-eurjpy-27-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=2391d159d635486ef7c98efd0330e535