+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-27"
description = "Wave analysis for"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Wave analysis for"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 27, 2020

July 27, 2020

Weekly Elliott wave analysis and forecast for cryptocurrenciesRoman
Onegin

##  **Forecast for BTCUSD, LTCUSD, ETHUSD, EOSUSD, XRPUSD pairs**

### Elliott wave analysis for [BTCUSD][1]

###

###  **![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for cryptocurrencies Elliott Wave
analysis for Bitcoin, Ripple, Ethereum, Litecoin and EOS][2]**

In the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) chart of BTCUSD, we see the market’s fast growth in the
linking wave [X] which is part of the global double zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y].
The linking wave [X] is a double zigzag too, of a smaller degree. The
ultimate zigzag (Y) , which consists of sub-waves A-B-C, is forming at
the moment. Let’s have a detailed look at the chart on a smaller time
frame.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for cryptocurrencies Elliott Wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ripple, Ethereum, Litecoin and EOS][3]

We see the first part of an ascending zigzag - impulse wave A - forming
at the moment. This wave includes sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3]-[4], where
sideways correction [4] formed as a contracting horizontal triangle. The
final bullish impulse [5] is developing at the moment. It may be
completed at around 11,200. At that level, the size of wave 5 will be
61.8% of the previous impulse 3. The probability of reaching this ratio
is high. So, we may see a price growth this trading week.

* * *

### Elliott wave analysis for [ETHUSD][4]

###

 **![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for cryptocurrencies Elliott Wave
analysis for Bitcoin, Ripple, Ethereum, Litecoin and EOS][5]**

A big triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z] is forming here. We see an
ascending linking wave [X] forming in the last segment of the chart.
It’s a double zigzag which consists of sub-waves (W)-(X)-(Y). They are
simple zigzags.  Wave A of (Y) is forming now as a 5-wave impulse, by
its inner structure. Let’s have a look at the H8 time frame chart.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for cryptocurrencies Elliott Wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ripple, Ethereum, Litecoin and EOS][6]

We see an ascending impulse wave A forming. It consists of sub-waves
[1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5]. A sideways corrective movement has developed in
wave [4] recently, which formed as a triple three pattern
(w)-(x)-(y)-(xx)-(z). Now we see a powerful impulse [5]. A slight
decline may occur in correction (4) this week; then the pair may grow in
the ultimate wave (5) to a level of 360.00.

* * *

### Elliott wave analysis for ****[ **LTCUSD**][7]

###

 **![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for cryptocurrencies Elliott Wave
analysis for Bitcoin, Ripple, Ethereum, Litecoin and EOS][8]**

LTCUSD continues forming a descending triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z].
Four parts of this pattern have been fully completed. Wave (Z) is
forming now. It’s a simple zigzag and consists of three main sub-waves
(A)-(B)-(C). A bearish impulse wave (A) has been completed and it has
included sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. Now we are in a corrective wave (B). Let’s
have a closer look at this correction.![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for
cryptocurrencies Elliott Wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ripple, Ethereum,
Litecoin and EOS][9]

The ascending corrective wave (B) consists of sub-waves A-B-C. We see an
impulse wave A and a fully-formed sideways flat - correction B - in the
form of a triple three pattern. The first part of an ascending impulse
wave C is developing at the moment. So, the market is expected to rise
to 83.00 this trading week, as shown in the chart.

* * *

### Elliott wave analysis for ****[ **EOSUSD**][10]

###

 **![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for cryptocurrencies Elliott Wave
analysis for Bitcoin, Ripple, Ethereum, Litecoin and EOS][11]**

A global corrective wave B continues forming as a descending triple
zigzag. The first three parts of this pattern have fully formed. Now the
market is growing in linking wave [X]. It’s a simple zigzag marked with
waves (A)-(B)-(C). The impulse wave (A) and correction  (B) look fully
formed. Wave (C) is still forming. Let’s have a closer look at the final
segment of the chart.![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for cryptocurrencies
Elliott Wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ripple, Ethereum, Litecoin and
EOS][12]

We see that once the corrective movement in wave (B) finished, the
market started growing and forming the ultimate impulse wave (C). We may
see the growth going on in sub-waves 3-4-5 to a level of 4.40 located on
a resistance line.

* * *

### Wave analysis for [XRPUSD][13]

###

###  **![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for cryptocurrencies Elliott Wave
analysis for Bitcoin, Ripple, Ethereum, Litecoin and EOS][14]**

Like in the past weeks, XRPUSD is forming a large triple zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. A descending wave [Y] has recently formed as a
double zigzag inside that triple zigzag; then an ascending linking wave
[X] started developing in the form of a simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). Let’s
examine its structure in detail on the H8 time frame.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for cryptocurrencies Elliott Wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ripple, Ethereum, Litecoin and EOS][15]

An ascending impulse wave (A) has formed in the above mentioned zigzag
(A)-(B)-(C); then a descending corrective wave (B) formed as a bearish
double zigzag. The first part of the ultimate impulse wave (C) is
developing at the moment. The market is supposed to grow in sub-waves
3-4-5 to a level of 0.281 located on a resistance line.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][16]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][17] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![Weekly Elliott wave analysis and forecast for cryptocurrencies][18]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-07-2020X/BTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=f59fb18632c3a1273bf0d6ffd0caa8e0
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-07-2020X/BTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=a5506e7682b72199fadf663d4261beca
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-07-2020X/ETHUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=4ab38d782b99f4a264fd2783a25f387b
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-07-2020X/ETHUSDH8.png?w=30&s=a615948d2f03348935c618ba9031750e
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-07-2020X/LTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=a227ad8f738143018708316a21df945e
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-07-2020X/LTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=2b430a2a141965ec627cb7848247d509
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-07-2020X/EOSUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=8fe90a14608cd7bdf14afcffe85780c3
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-07-2020X/EOSUSDH8.png?w=30&s=4fd548c8ba1f82fb37574a724b033ade
   13. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD&returnUrl=true
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-07-2020X/XRPUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=a25827786691e546faf2065c951aa77e
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-07-2020X/XRPUSDH8.png?w=30&s=7efbd5a53d0700ca690d94e1560aaf59
   16. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-analysis-and-forecast-for-cryptocurrencies-2020-07-27&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   17. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-analysis-and-forecast-for-cryptocurrencies-2020-07-27&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/1-elliott-waves-weekly-forecast-for-[BTC](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/who-is-the-creator-of-bitcoin/)usd-ethusd-ltcusd-eosusd-xrpusd_1000x545.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1480cfce2406c81b57be8a77076342f1