+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-02"
description = "US dollar price forecast 2 April 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 2 April 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=18.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-02

2021-04-02

Dollar: It is time of facts. Forecast as of 02.04.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The US jobs report for March could determine the [EURUSD][1] trend for
the next month or even longer. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make
up a trading plan.

## Fundamental US dollar forecast today

In March, the US dollar showed quite a good performance, often amid weak
US domestic data. We shall see the dollar price moves when the economic
data start improving steadily. The [EURUSD][1] reaction to the US jobs
report could determine the market trend for the next month or even
longer. We shall closely watch the market movements.

Daiwa Securities notes that not only speculators buy the greenback but
also asset managers. The company says the USD index will continue the
rally as long as the US economy grows and Treasury yields are rising.
Nordea Markets shares the same opinion, suggesting the [EURUSD][1] is
heading for 1.15. I do not think so.

Markets are rising on the expectations. It happened so that the US GDP
forecasts for 2021 were upgrading amid massive fiscal stimulus and rapid
vaccination, while the failure of the COVID-19 vaccination campaign in
the EU, the extension of the lockdowns, and the third pandemic wave in
Europe made JP Morgan and Deutsche Bank downgrade the euro-area growth
forecasts from 5.8% to 5.3% and from 5.6% to 4.6%, respectively.
Therefore, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s were selling off the [EURUSD][1] on the rumors, and
now it is time to take the facts into account. The fact is that the
euro-area PMIs are growing despite the restrictions, and the US economic
recovery could support other world’s economies, including the euro area.

### Dynamics of leading economic indicators



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The euro-area manufacturing sector managed to provide a growth momentum
for the composite PMI in March. Germany’s manufacturing PMI has featured
the best growth over the 25-year [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) of records. Furthermore, the
WTO increases international trade forecasts for 2021 to 8%, which is a
strong argument for buying the export-led countries' currencies. I mean
euro. The WTO notes that Joe Biden’s $1.9 trillion stimulus will
increase demand in North America by 11.4%. Most of the demand will be
satisfied by the producers from Asia and Europe.

Therefore, [EURUSD][1] bulls lack only one thing, the acceleration of
the vaccination campaign. In the EU, only 16.5% of the population
received at least one dose, compared to 45.6% in the USA. I believe the
situation should improve in the second quarter. The matter is in
psychology, first of all. There are quite many people who are unwilling
to vaccinate. Therefore, a quick start does not guarantee a victorious
finish.

A strong jobs report will only convince the strong position of the US
economy, which in the medium term is a benefit for export-led countries.
In this regard, employment growth above 647,000 expected by Reuters
experts may provoke a further rally in the [S&P 500][2] and support the
[EURUSD][1]. On the other hand, if Treasury yields resume growth, the
euro will come under pressure.

### [EURUSD][1] trading plan today

The market reaction is interesting and should determine the [EURUSD][1]
trend for the next month or even longer. It will be relevant to enter
longs if the price breaks out the resistance levels of 1.18 and 1.184.
If the EURUSD bulls fail to consolidate the price above the indicated
levels, they will prove their weakness.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true