+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-23"
description = "US dollar price forecast 23 June 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 23 June 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-23

2021-06-23

Dollar is steady in the boat. Forecast as of 23.06.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Fed is not willing to change its wait-and-see approach until the
employment and inflation targets are met. How will it affect the euro?
Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

Correction or trend change? The correct answer to this question has
enriched many people, the wrong one has broken many lives. The turmoil
in the bond and currency markets following the FOMC June meeting
resulted from the rebalancing of speculative positions and the
assumption that reflation trade has collapsed. Allegedly, expectations
of economic growth are at the limit, and an increase in supply amid the
restrictions on the part of China will send down the prices for goods.
As a result, there is an increased demand for safe-havens, including
10-year Treasuries and the US dollar. But what if the reflation trade is
not abandoned? What if it is not the end but just a drawdown? What if it
is not the trend reversal but a correction?

According to Natixis, the market reaction to the change in FOMC rate
forecasts was excessive, as forecasts are not facts, and there is a long
period before the federal funds rate hike. JP Morgan believes it is time
to increase the proportion of cyclical stocks and commodities in the
portfolio after the reflation trade faced a technical drawdown. After
all, the interest rates won’t be raised soon, according to the Fed’s
officials. “We will not raise interest rates pre-emptively because we
think employment is too high [or] because we fear the possible onset of
inflation,” Powell said during a congressional hearing. “Talking about
rate changes now isn’t even on the table,” Mary Daly, president of the
San Francisco Fed, said. The Fed’s mantra now is “steady in the boat.”

The greenback strengthening in response to the change in FOMC forecasts
was a kind of punishment for hedge funds, which made bets on reflation
and increased US dollar shorts to the highest level in the last few
months. However, were they really so wrong? The Fed will continue to
move towards monetary tightening very slowly, and value stocks still
look undervalued compared to growth stocks. Furthermore, the structural
problems of raw materials supply amid soaring demand will push the
product prices up. The oil price could go up to $100 per barrel.

### Dynamics of USD and dollar speculative positions



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Therefore, it is too early to talk about the end of the reflation trade
or the [EURUSD][2] uptrend reversal. I believe commodity currencies
should lure [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s back soon, which I wrote in the LiteForex blog,
recommending buying the [Canadian dollar][3]. The euro trend will depend
on the euro-area economic recovery. If the GDP rate exceeds the
forecasts, the growth of European bond yields and an increase in the
number of hawks in the Governing Council will encourage the euro bulls.

### Weekly [EURUSD][2] trading plan

In the short term, the [EURUSD][2] could grow if the buyers hold the
price above 1.19 and break through the local high at 1.1955. It will be
relevant to sell down to $1.175 if the euro falls below $1.185-1.188.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/loonie-is-ahead-of-us-dollar-forecast-as-of-22062021/