+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-25"
description = "US dollar price forecast 25 March 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 25 March 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-25

2021-03-25

Dollar drags on euro. Forecast as of 25.03.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Based on different vaccination rates and the growth gap, the [EURUSD][1]
bulls should be losing. However, the strong US economy could drag on the
rest of the world, including the euro-area. Let us discuss the Forex
outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

Investors were focused on the Treasury yield rally, ignoring the US weak
domestic data. The drop in the durable goods orders by 1.1% M-o-M in
February, following nine months of growth, added to the negative
produced by declines in retail sales, industrial production, and new
home sales. Nonetheless, traders were selling Treasuries, and the
[EURUSD][1] was falling. What will happen when the US economic data
start improving?

In fact, the Treasury yield could be growing without strong economic
data. Markets are growing or falling on the expectations, and belief in
the US GDP rise to 6.5% in 2021 encourages [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s to sell safe-haven
assets. According to the Bloomberg model, of the 84-basis-point increase
in the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield since the start of the year, 60
resulted from stronger growth expectations. That’s a clear contrast to
the 2013 taper tantrum when the rise in yields was driven by
expectations of premature QE end.

### Treasury yields growth drivers

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

So, the Fed is not worried about the rising cost of borrowing in the
markets. Jerome Powell continues to repeat the mantra that it is an
orderly process that does not materially degrade financial conditions.
This means that the central bank should not be concerned about this. The
Fed will make decisions based on evidence, but what will strong US
statistics mean for the dollar?

In 2020, the US current account deficit increased to 3.5% of GDP; the
budget deficit widened to 15% of GDP. The imports growth and fiscal
stimulus would further expand the US twin deficit, which would press the
greenback down in the long-term outlook. Eventually, foreign [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s
will not want to fund the US national debt, and the Fed will have to
boost the QE pace to cover the deficit. Besides, increasing the US
foreign trade deficit will increase the surplus in the euro-area. It
means the US economy will support the euro-area growth. In addition to
the increase in the global risk appetite amid the US economic data
improvement, this fact will support the [EURUSD][1] bulls.

Of course, without positive changes in the euro-area economic data and
vaccination process, the euro will not grow. However, I can’t say
everything is that bad in Europe. Germany manufacturing PMI has featured
the best rise since the records began in 1996, and European commodity
prices are growing faster than US ones. The ECB could be worried about
inflation!

### Dynamics of commodity and materials prices

 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

The euro-area PMI data provided some positive, but will the [EURUSD][1]
rebound? I do not think the euro will start rising without an increase
in the vaccination rate in the EU. Europe is preparing for the third
wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the US vaccination campaign is
progressing. The euro-dollar price is more likely to drop to 1.18,
1.176, and 1.172 than go back to the red line at 1.193, but this is the
case when I would be glad if I were wrong. It is still relevant to sell
the euro.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true