+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-26"
description = "Euro price forecast 26 January 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 26 January 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-26

2021-01-26

Euro has a bad feeling. Forecast as of 26.01.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The slow introduction of vaccines sets the [EURUSD][1] bulls back. There
should start a correction down. Should the euro bulls step back? Or is
it a chance to buy the single European currency at a low price? Let us
discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

If greed rules the market, the currency traders follow their doubts. The
[EURUSD][1] doesn’t rise even amid the [S&P 500][2] rally and the drop
in the US Treasury yields. The future doesn’t look as bright as it did
in November-December. The pharmaceutical giant Merck's refusal to
develop its own vaccine and the statement by AstraZeneca that shipments
to the EU will lag behind forecasts press down the euro.

Netherlands Bureau for Economic Policy Analysis reports that, at the end
of 2020, the volume of international trade for the first time in several
months exceeded the levels that took place a year earlier (+ 1.5%),
which proves my Forex analysis to be correct. In November-December, the
[EURUSD][1] was growing amid the optimism about a soon victory over the
COVID-19, opening of the economies, and rebound of the global GDP and
international trade. The main driver of the international trade growth
in early December was industrial production, which was only 1.6% lower
than at the end of 2019 in the euro area (5.4% lower in the US).

In January, it became clear that the vaccination is not as fast as
expected, the euro-area countries extend lockdowns, and the GDP is not
going to rebound. The Bloomberg leading indicators suggest that the
economic activity is slowing down. The manufacturing PMI is the only
indicator that should be up, but weak demand overloads the warehouses.
It is not surprising that international trade is not growing.

### Dynamics of economic activity

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Therefore, the investing ideas of November-December do not work. The
euro doesn’t grow, although the US stock indexes soar ([investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s even
joke that a bear is not the one who sells the equities, but the one who
has less than 75% of stocks in the portfolio). The drop in the US
Treasury yields, which should potentially weaken the dollar, doesn’t
support the euro. Investors buy the US government bonds as they doubt
the approval of the $1.9 trillion fiscal stimulus package by Congress
and the rebound of the US economy. Besides, low TIPS rates and growing
inflation expectations create a favorable environment for tech stocks,
which is proven by [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/).

### Dynamics of Treasury yields

 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

The only thing that holds back the [EURUSD][1] bears now is the
potential dovish tone of the Fed. Jerome Powell is likely to refute the
statements of individual FOMC members about the future tapering of QE.
No one wants the taper tantrum of 2013 to repeat.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

I still believe that the euro will reach $1.25. Humanity will defeat the
pandemic, and the November plans will certainly come true. A little
later. Meanwhile, Jerome Powell’s comments at the press conference
following the FOMC January meeting could send the [EURUSD][1] down below
the key support at 1.208-1.2085, starting a correction.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true