+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-26"
description = "Pound price forecast 26 January 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 26 January 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-26

2021-01-26

Pound: The vaccine changes rules of game. Forecast as of
26.01.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Investors prefer to buy those countries' currencies that are actively
fighting COVID-19, including with the help of vaccines. Let's discuss
how the vaccination campaign's speed will affect the [EURGBP][1] and
[GBPUSD][2] prices and make up a trading plan.

## Monthly pound fundamental forecast

Traders love divergences. In technical analysis, the price chart's
divergence with the [MACD indicator](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/macd.html) is used in the well-known Elder
Triple Screen Trading System. In fundamental research, divergences in
central banks’ monetary policies and economic growth rates have served
their fans for decades. Due to the pandemic, new strategies are emerging
in the Forex market, and trading divergence in vaccination rates is
gaining popularity.

Britain is considered to be one of the most COVID-19 affected countries.
Due to the impressive share of the service sector as a whole (over 80%)
and such spheres as recreation, culture, restaurants, and hotels (13%),
in particular, in the UK's GDP, the UK economy faced the most
destructive recession in the last three centuries. As a result, the
country slipped into the last place among the G7 countries. It is all
the more surprising to see the [GBPUSD][2] prices near the highs since
April 2018 and the [EURGBP][1] prices near the 10-month bottom.

The vaccine changes the rules of the game. The currencies of the most
COVID-19 affected countries that have a clear plan for overcoming the
crisis are beginning to enjoy increased demand, and sterling has
something to offer [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s in this regard. At the end of January, 10%
of Britain's population was inoculated which is five times more than in
the European Union. Divergence in vaccination rates supports the
[EURGBP][1] bears.

### Dynamics of [EURGBP][1] and vaccination rate



 _Source: Bloomberg._

The EU is facing difficulties such as a delay in the supply of the
AstraZeneca vaccine and Pfizer/BioNTech's intention to reduce its
product offer outside the US. As a result, the vaccination campaign
slows down, and the euro suffers. The surges of [EURGBP][1] are
associated with weak statistics on retail sales, purchasing managers'
index, and UK employment. The British economy is depressed, but this is
a well-known fact. To predict exchange rates, you need to be able to
predict the future. The belief that most of the UK population will
receive the vaccine by summer allows Aberdeen Standard Investments to
expect that the pound will rise by 20% against the euro.

I also believe that the primary beneficiaries of the victory over the
pandemic will be the currencies of those countries that will eradicate
COVID-19 first. Sterling will benefit from the booming economy following
its release from the lockdown. Due to fiscal stimulus, the UK personal
savings rate is near historic highs, and once people start spending that
money, GDP will show strong growth.

As for the [GBPUSD][2], despite the potential development of the
correction in the short term, the growth of inflationary expectations in
the US, measured by the break-even level, will push the USD index down.

### US dollar and break-even level dynamics



 _Source: Nordea Markets._

### [EURGBP][1] and [GBPUSD][2] trading plan for a month

In my opinion, after the release of disappointing data on the British
economy, [EURGBP][1] price growth should be used for selling in the
direction of 0.88, and rebounds from supports at 1.3565, 1.352, 1.349
for buying [GBPUSD][2].



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURGBP&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true