+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-17"
description = "US dollar price forecast 17 May 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 17 May 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-05-17

2021-05-17

Dollar: from boom to scandal. Forecast as of 17.05.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The theory of the US economic boom amid massive fiscal stimulus and
pent-up demand may not work out. Besides, there are positive economic
data in the euro area. How will it affect the [EURUSD][1]? Let us
discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

The US economic recovery looks like a scandal rather than a boom.
Controversial economic data create problems for the White House because
its previous fiscal stimulus turned into an acceleration of inflation
and pressed down the employment growth. Republicans compare the current
situation to the era of stagflation under President Jimmy Carter, and
Democrats are forced to admit that this will be a chaotic recovery. So,
the US economic rebound may not be as fast as the Fed and IMF expect.
The USA could lose its exclusivity, setting back the [EURUSD][1] bears.

It is one thing when financial markets test Fed’s strength, but it is
different when the White House loses touch with the electorate.
According to the University of Michigan, the US consumer sentiment index
dropped to its three-month low of 82.3, lower than the most pessimistic
forecasts of Bloomberg experts. Consumer inflation expectations for the
next year increased to 4.6%, while 43% of the survey’s respondents said
prices could rise by at least 5%. The last time such inflation was in
1991. Consumers are concerned that the era of low prices has finished.
That is why Congress may not adopt new fiscal stimulus packages of $4
trillion proposed by Joe Biden. If the stimulus plans are rejected, the
US economy won’t be rising as fast as the [EURUSD][1] bears wish.

### Dynamics of Treasury yield and inflation expectations



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg._

The euro bulls bet on the increase in the euro-area inflation and PMI.
Consumer prices in the euro area could jump up to 2% over the next few
months, encouraging the Governing Council’s hawks to go ahead. The
minutes of the ECB April meeting highlighted encouraging signs of the
global demand recovery, fiscal stimulus in the US, and an acceleration
in the vaccine rollouts across the EU. Therefore, the ECB believes the
euro-area economy could recover sooner than earlier expected.

The evidence of a faster growth could be the euro-area PMI report. Other
highlights of the week ending May 21 are the report on the European
inflation and the FOMC meeting’s minutes. According to Bloomberg
experts, the euro-area services PMI will continue rising, proving that
the euro-area economy can manage the double-dip recession. Although
skeptics claim that the difference between the US and euro-area PMI
could be the widest over many years, who will guarantee following a
series of chaotic data in the USA?

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Of course, the supply will catch up with the demand. However, until it
happens, the discrepancy between the recovery of industries will
continue to manifest itself most unexpectedly. The theory of the US
economic boom may not work out, which, amid positive economic data in
the euro-area, will encourage the [EURUSD][1] bulls to go ahead. If the
euro price consolidates above $1.211, it could continue rallying up to
$1.22 and $1.226. If it doesn’t consolidate, there should be short-term
consolidation in the range of $1.198-$1.218.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true