+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-13"
description = "The Republican's behavior lost him the election"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "The Republican's behavior lost him the election"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-13

2020-11-13

Forex says goodbye to Trump. Review as of 13.11.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The Republican's behavior lost him the election

## Markets will be bored without the 45th US president

The US had been putting together the pieces of its mosaic for a long
time and was proud of that. Trump and his team can be portrayed as a
band of youngsters who did everything to destroy it. Biden will have to
restore what was damaged: former relations, glory, and economy. Trump's
behavior in the global arena was a real elephant in the room, so let's
hope the Democrat won't behave like a donkey.

Donald Trump always believed it's not facts but fighting qualities that
matter in an argument. There certainly was a reason for Beijing's
calling him "wild." Trump counted on import taxes to delay the day when
China would have outperformed the USA. He wanted to reshape the world
where the US was undeservedly hurt. Trump's policies and behavior had
been too aggressive, and many think it's his inappropriate behavior that
lost him the 2020 election. His mistakes were forgiven, except for the
COVID-19 one. However, everything is relative. One can say, Trump came
the second and Biden - the last but one.

The 46th US president is much different from his predecessor. Biden
won't attempt to make America great again at someone else's expense. He
is trying to move production back to the USA through tax benefits and
stimulate demand through higher infrastructure spending. The main idea
is that a strong rather than bellicose America will be able to regain
its former glory.

We will undoubtedly miss Trump and his Twitter. The White House's former
tenant managed to question the common truth, which says if you can't
control yourself, you will be controlled by others. His decisions were
often inadequate and let others think it's hard to get one's head right
when one is in power. Still, you can't please everyone. All the world's
a stage: some always put on an act, and some tend to overdramatize.

Trump's epoch has ended, but he's still made fun of: they say the US
election's main intrigue was not about who's the winner; it was about
persuading Trump that the winner is Biden. The more popular the
president is, the more anecdotes they tell. Biden hasn't assumed the
presidency yet, but he has already hinted that Melania Trump may
continue residing in the White House.

The financial markets can't wait to see how Biden will restore the
broken mosaics. Many believe that a divided Congress won't allow him to
raise taxes and toughen [regulation](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-broker-regulation/) on IT companies. However, personal
connections can be more efficient nowadays than a deep pocket, even if
money can buy anything. Joe Biden knows well some of the Republican
senators, but it's hard to predict how things will develop. You can't
manage it without a bottle.

> \- Go and fetch a few bottles of vodka.

>

> \- What do you mean by "a few"?

>

> \- A few means eight!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][1]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][2] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of SPX in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=forex-says-goodbye-to-trump-review-as-of-13112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   2. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=forex-says-goodbye-to-trump-review-as-of-13112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus