+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-21"
description = "Oil price forecast 21 June 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Oil price forecast 21 June 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-21

2021-06-21

Oil rally is full of uncertainty. Forecast as of 21.06.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

While the IEA is urging mining companies to open their taps, fast-
growing global oil demand makes it possible for [Brent][1] price to
return to $100 a barrel. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a
trading plan

## Quarterly oil fundamental forecast

Oil is one of the few assets that can withstand the rapidly growing US
dollar. All thanks to the global economic recovery. According to IEA
forecasts, global oil demand will increase by 5.4 million bpd in 2021
and by 3.1 million bpd, that is, it will return to pre-pandemic levels
next year. Prices have already done that.

There are three distinct periods in the life of the oil market: pre-
recession, recession, and post-recession. Before COVID-19, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s
learned to predict the market conditions fairly accurately. Disputes
were about deviations in supply or demand of 100 thousand b/d. The
pandemic has caused this figure to increase at least tenfold. During the
recession, demand fell sharply, causing global oil inventories to spike.
There were not even enough oil storage tanks. There was contango in the
market and prices were plummeting.

### Oil market conditions

 _Source: Bloomberg._

A year later, everything turned upside down. Due to the development of
safer and greener business models by US manufacturers, the desire to
increase investment efficiency, or due to a sharp drop in revenues in
2020, oil production in the United States is far from peak levels, and
the number of drilling rigs is almost half of what it was before the
pandemic. If before the recession, the position of the United States and
OPEC was often decisive, now the oil market is controlled by OPEC and
Russia.

As for oil demand, its full recovery in China, rapid growth in the US
and Europe, as well as an improvement in the epidemiological situation
in India are contributing to the rise in [Brent][1] and [WTI][2] prices.
Goldman Sachs estimates that global demand has reached 97 million bpd,
up from 95 million bpd a few weeks ago. Before the pandemic, the figure
was about 100 million bpd. In theory, it has a limit. At some point,
demand will peak due to the growing use of electric vehicles and
government intervention seeking to keep away its citizens from oil. When
will this happen? In 5, 15, or 50 years? In the meantime, [Brent][1] and
[WTI][2] bulls may continue to rally, which is unpredictable due to the
existing uncertainty in the market.

Neither Iran nor the potential increase in OPEC+ production, which may
be approved on July 1, is intimidating to oil. If Tehran and Washington
agree to return to the nuclear deal canceled by Donald Trump, the
lifting of sanctions will lead to an increase in production from the
current 2.1 million bpd to 3.8 million bpd. If the process drags on, the
market simply won't notice new barrels. The OPEC+ production increase is
perceived as the alliance's optimism regarding market conditions, so
production growth is unlikely to provoke a serious correction. Moreover,
the IEA calls on the mining companies to open their taps, while the oil
price rise is fraught with a slowdown in the global economic recovery.

### Quarterly [Brent][1] trading plan

In my opinion, the [Brent][1] rally is far from over. An increase in
global demand could push Brent price to $80-85 per barrel in the third
quarter. I recommend holding [longs][3] opened in the level of $64.9 per
barrel and periodically adding up to them on corrections.



## Price chart of UKBrent in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=UKBrent_n&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USCrude_n&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/oil-is-on-a-lucky-streak-forecast-as-of-21042021/