+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-12"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (12 January 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (12 January 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-12

2021-01-12

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 12.01.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Euro was corrected down to the medium-term uptrend key support zone
[1.2165 - 1.2146]. This week, enter purchases according to the pattern
with the target at the high of January.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil is trading in the medium-term chart without changes. The medium-term
uptrend continues. The target is Target Zone 4 [54.72 - 54.21]. Enter
purchases on the correction in the zone [49.62 - 47.75].

The short-term trend is up. Yesterday traders tested Additional Zone
[51.59 - 51.48]. The price didn't break out the zone, and a buy pattern
has been formed.

Now the price is testing the strong resistance Gold Zone [52.39 -
52.16]. If it breaks out this zone, look for purchases with the target
in Target Zone 3 [55.00 - 54.53].

Otherwise, if the price does not break out the GZ, it will go into a
deep correction with the target in the Intermediary Zone [50.46 -
50.24].

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Hold up buy trades entered in Additional Zone [51.59 - 51.48]. TakeProfit: 52.68. StopLoss: at breakeven.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [50.46 - 50.24]. TakeProfit: 52.68. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

In the first week of the new year, the gold medium-term trend reversed
up. Target Zone 2 [2005.8 - 1994.3] is the target for purchases.

At the end of last week, the price was corrected down to the zone of the
trend key support [1859.2 - 1849.2]. The price didn’t break out the
zone. The trend border can be drawn at the level of 1816.9.

While the supports are being held, I suggest looking for gold purchases
according to the pattern.

The short-term trend is down. Within this trend, the lower Target Zone
[1859.2 - 1849.2] has been reached. The traders failed to break it out.

Now the price is being corrected and approaching the trend line [1872.1
- 1867.1]. Wait for the test of the level and watch the bears' reaction.
When a pattern appears, sell the metal with a target at the January low.

If the IZ is broken out, the short-term trend will reverse up. Enter
purchases with a target in the upper Target Zone [1927.1 - 1917.1].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Open medium-term buy positions according to the pattern [1859.2 -
1816.9]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [2005.8 - 1994.3]. StopLoss:
according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Euro was corrected down to the medium-term uptrend key support zone
[1.2165 - 1.2146]. This week, enter purchases according to the pattern
with the target at the high of January.

As part of the short-term fall, we observe the Target Zone test [1.2165
- 1.2146]. The zone has not been broken out, and it is too early to
expect the further price fall.

Wait for the correction to get new favorable sell prices. Additional
Zone [1.2183 - 1.2178] and Intermediary Zone [1.2233 - 1.2224] are
strong resistances today.

After the resistance test, wait for a sell pattern and sell the euro
with a target at the week's low.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.2183 - 1.2178]. TakeProfit: 1.2134. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.2233 - 1.2224]. TakeProfit: 1.2134. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-12012021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-12012021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus