+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-12"
description = "US dollar price forecast 12 January 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 12 January 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-12

2021-01-12

Dollar follows Treasuries. Forecast of 12.01.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Before you start rising, you need to get rid of everything, keeping you
down, the ballast. The EURUSD correction has scared off some former
bulls. What’s next? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a
[EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

The dollar has become oversold, so, naturally, it should rise for some
time. The rally of the Treasury yields encouraged speculators to exit
short trades on the greenback, which have been expanding over the past
few weeks and reached multi-year highs. Emerging markets currencies and
the euro have suffered the most from the USD rebound. The [EURUSD][1]
correction has questioned the former consensus forecast and even turned
yesterday’s bulls into bears.

Morgan Stanley, which suggested at the end of 2020 that the US dollar
should be 10% down over the next twelve months, now says the greenback
has reached the bottom. New fiscal stimulus and the Fed’s discussion of
monetary normalization, which could start already in June, will support
the Treasury yield growth. I must admit the arguments are quite
convincing: in my [December euro price prediction][2], I noted that the
[EURUSD][1] uptrend could turn down amid the talks about the federal
funds rate hike, but I expected it to happen in late 2021. I still keep
my point of view, the current euro’s drawdown is a normal correction,
the pair should exceed the January highs before the uptrend reverses.

After Joe Biden promised trillions of dollars of additional assistance
to the economy, the Treasury yields are rallying up. The rates on
10-year Treasuries have reached 1.158%, the highest value since
February. Besides, Citi anticipates that the new fiscal stimulus will be
$600 billion, Goldman Sachs expects $750 billion, and BofA Merrill Lynch
- $1 trillion.

### Projections for new stimulus package

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The situation in the US bond market doesn’t yet concern the Fed.
Conversely, Atlanta Fed President Raphael Bostic said that if the US
economy recovers quickly, the central bank will begin to roll back QE as
early as 2021. Dallas Federal Reserve President Robert Kaplan says he
expects the US economic growth to be strong enough to allow the Fed to
consider pulling back on the asset purchase program. The money markets
suggest the Fed should hike the interest rate twice by the end of 2023.
Not long ago, there were doubts even about a single rate hike during the
suggested period.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

I think the Fed is not concerned about the rise of the Treasury nominal
yield, as the real yield is still low. The 10-year yield should be up to
1.6-1.8% to scare the Fed and the markets, which is yet unlikely. On the
contrary, the idea of Trump’s impeachment could delay Congress’s
consideration of Joe Biden’s stimulus offer, discourage the bears on the
US Treasuries, and suspend the [EURUSD][1] correction. To buy the euro-
dollar, we need additional signals. The first buy signal will be sent
when the euro sellers fail to draw the price below the support zone of
$1.212-$1.2145. If the price goes below the support zone, we shall pick
up the rebound and buy the euro at a low price around $1.208 and $1.204.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/two-scenarios-to-trade-the-euro-forecast-as-of-28122020/