+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-07"
description = "Forecast for USD price for 7 June 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for USD price for 7 June 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-07

2021-06-07

Dollar going hot and cold. Forecast as of 07.06.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Who said consolidation is boring? We've earned quite a lot from [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/)
trading in the past two weeks using the "buy on rumors, sell on facts"
strategy. So, why should we give it up? Let’s discuss it and make a
trading plan for the [EURUSD][1].

## Weekly fundamental forecast for dollar

The US dollar did what it was expected to do -- it was sold amid
employment growth by 559 thousand in May. However, that didn't solve the
puzzle about its further destiny and the US economy's near future.
Investors, on the contrary, got puzzled even more than before the
statistics were published. Thirty-three out of sixty-three Reuters
experts expect that the greenback's weakening is over in the short term,
and the rest predict a fall by 0.5-6%. As a result, the [EURUSD][1] will
rise to 1.22 in 6 months and to 1.24 in 12 months. Quite a modest
forecast, right?

The US labor market is recovering slower than the economy. The GDP will
return to its pre-pandemic levels as early as 2021, but it will take
over one year for the economy to fully recover based on the current
employment growth rates. At first sight, that forces the Fed to continue
buying $120 billion of bonds each month. The problem is that employers
cannot bring in enough workforce and have to raise wages, which slows
down the labor market. An average wage grew 0.5% in May, exceeding
Bloomberg's forecast of +0.2% MoM. Higher cost, including labor costs,
leads to a final price escalation and, eventually, CPI/PCE growth, which
the Fed can hardly ignore.

According to Bloomberg's survey, consumer prices and core inflation will
rise from 4.2% to 4.7% and from 3% to 3.4% in May, an all-time high
since the mid-1990s. Who can be sure the process will slow down in the
second half of the year?

### US inflation dynamics

 _Source: Reuters._

The Fed expects that schools will get back to normal in September and
stimulus cheques will end, and pleads base effects. It believes an
inflation increase looks temporary. However, US Secretary of the
Treasury Janet Yellen says Joe Biden won't give up his $4 trillion
spending plans only because high prices will last long. If that
continues in 2022, the next year's ending up with higher interest rates
may be an advantage for the society and the Fed.

Whatever decision Jerome Powell and his colleagues may take, it will be
well-grounded and will hardly affect the USD. The destiny of the
[EURUSD][1] will be determined in Europe. For example, at ECB's meeting
on 10 June. Christine Lagarde will have to make a titanic effort to cool
down euro bulls that will be breaking through amid an upgrade of March
forecasts for GDP and employment.

 **Weekly trading plan for**[ **EURUSD**][1] ****

What should a trader do in these circumstances? Continue using the "buy
on rumors, sell on facts" strategy! The EURUSD's inability to break
through resistance at 1.2205/1.222 or consolidate above support at 1.216
will increase the risk of falling ahead of a US inflation publication
and the ECB's meeting. Then, we'll start buying!







## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true