+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-07"
description = "Japanese Yen price forecast 7 June 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Japanese Yen price forecast 7 June 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-07

2021-06-07

Will yen spread its wings? Forecast as of 07.06.2021Dmitri Demidenko

So many men, so many minds. While Societe Generale officials consider
the yen cheap and are waiting for the acceleration of vaccinations and
the opening of the economy to allow the JPY to spread its wings, I have
doubts about this. Let us discuss this question and make up a trading
plan for [USDJPY][1] and [EURJPY][2]

## Weekly yen fundamental analysis

The fall in US Treasury yields in response to a weak US jobs report in
May was encouraging for the Japanese yen. Since the beginning of the
year, the JPY has lost about 6% of its value against the greenback, and
according to Reuters experts, it will not be able to recover its
positions over the next 12 months. Although many economists in the May
28 - June 3 survey predict a gradual decline of [USDJPY][1] price, in my
opinion, the potential of the pair's upward movement is far from being
exhausted.

### [USDJPY][1] dynamics and forecasts

 _Source: Reuters._

Yen bulls focus everyone's attention on the JPY's underestimation. The
trade-weighted yen has plunged 6.2% since the start of 2021 to 2018
levels. Societe Generale officials think the yen looks cheap and look
forward to [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) about vaccination acceleration and opening of the
economy.

Indeed, the speed of vaccination in Japan is not encouraging. Only 3% of
the population received both doses of vaccines, and 9% of citizens
received the first one. For comparison, in the US these figures look
like 42% and 52%, in the EU 20% and 40%. Japan's GDP contracted by 1.3%
QoQ due to lockdowns. The Bank of Japan, unlike the Fed, continues to
fight deflation, which raises doubts about its abandoning from the yield
curve control [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) and serves as a sign of further [USDJPY][1] growth.

For now, the bulls are hindered by the US Treasury yield, which doesn't
rise. However, Capital Economics officials expect rates on 10-year
securities to rise to 2.5% as early as 2021, and BofA Merrill Lynch
predicts that the Fed will announce QE tapering in the period between
August and September, which will boost Treasury yields. In my opinion,
this process is natural in the context of global GDP recovery. A strong
economy can afford higher interest rates. This expression is true not
only for the US but also for the eurozone, where the bond yields rally
and the euro strengthening reflect the effects of accelerated
vaccination and expectations of the GDP boost. The question is, how does
the ECB assess the changing situation in the debt and foreign exchange
markets?

The problem is that some eurozone countries, such as Germany, are
recovering faster than Italy and Spain, narrowing bond yields and
helping to strengthen the euro.

### Dynamics of [EURUSD][3] and Italy-Germany bond spreads

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The different speed of recovery of the eurozone economies creates
difficulties for the ECB in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of ca[Libra](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/libra-creator/)ting monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). This
circumstance gives rise to rumors about a split in the Governing Council
and may become the basis for a [EURJPY][2] rebound after the correction
provoked by the release of the US jobs report.

### Weekly [USDJPY][1] and [EURJPY][2] trading plan

In my opinion, rebounds from supports at 109.2, 109, and 108.5 should be
used to enter [USDJPY][1] long trades. The June ECB meeting results will
allow buying [EURJPY][2] on correction with medium-term targets at 136
and 138, which I had to [raise][4] repeatedly in 2021.







## Price chart of USDJPY in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDJPY&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURJPY&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/central-banks-will-checkmate-the-yen-forecast-as-of-03052021/