+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-25"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (25 February 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (25 February 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=18.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-25

2021-02-25

Short-term analysis for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 25.02.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

A new gold downward impulse started yesterday and continues now. The
target for sales according to the trend is Target Zone 2 [1759 - 1749].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil continues to set new highs while RSI highs are declining for the
third week in a row. These are signs of an overbought market. The
correction will start soon, probably after the price reaches Target Zone
6 [64.92 - 64.41].

In the chart of a shorter timeframe, oil reached the Target Zone [63.54
- 63.09]. Consolidation above will lead to a further rate growth to the
Gold Zone [65.58 - 65.35]. If the resistance is held, a correction to
the short-term uptrend [61.31 - 61.09] key support will occur.

After reaching the key support, it is profitable to look for purchases
according to the pattern with the target at the day's high. Sales
require a breakout of level 61.09 and closing of the US trading session
below.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [61.31 - 61.09].
TakeProfit: 63.54. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

A new gold downward impulse started yesterday and continues now. The
target for sales according to the trend is Target Zone 2 [1759 - 1749].

The chart of a shorter timeframe shows a short-term downtrend and that
the sell pattern that was formed yesterday at the US trading session has
worked out. The target for sales is Target Zone [1775 - 1765].

Gold purchases are not relevant at the moment. They should be considered
only after the trend reversal up, and for this, the traders need to
break out the Intermediary Zone [1821 - 1815].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Hold sell trades entered in Intermediary Zone [1821 - 1815]. TakeProfit:
Target Zone [1775 - 1765]. StopLoss: 1813.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro prices entered the supply zone [1.2180 - 1.2150]. It is
profitable to look for a sell pattern in this area within the medium-
term downtrend. The target is the February low. The price needs to break
out the support of 1.2134 to form a pattern.

Yesterday the price entered the zone of good buy prices [1.2140 -
1.2136]. Consolidation below Additional Zone [1.2140 - 1.2136] did not
take place. Not a single trading session was able to be held in this
area. As a result, the short-term uptrend and the test of the Target
Zone [1.2200 - 1.2183] continue.

For further growth, it is required to break out the Target Zone and
consolidate higher. In this case, the target will be the Gold Zone
[1.2271 - 1.2263].

It will be relevant to sell the euro if the price breaks out Additional
Zone [1.2142 - 1.2138] downside. In this case, the price will drop to
the Intermediary Zone [1.2102 - 1.2094].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.2142 - 1.2138].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.2200 - 1.2183]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-25022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-25022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus