+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-26"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 26.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 26.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 26, 2020

August 26, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 26.08.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

It is relevant to buy oil in the ongoing uptrend. The target is to reach
Target Zone 6 [49.17 – 48.42]. Reasonable prices will be either in the
broken-out TZ5 to buy according to the pattern or in the key support
zone [37.23 — 36.61].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 26.08.2020][1]

The short-term oil trend is also up. Yesterday, traders broke out
Additional Zone [42.70 – 42.55], which is the local resistance. The
price was consolidated above the zone. The buy targets are to break
through the high of August and reach Gold Zone [45.04 – 44.67].

I suggest buying oil in the correction down to the broken-out zone and
in the new corrective AZ [41.78 - 41.63]. To enter purchases, we need a
pattern.

It will be relevant to sell oil if the price breaks out the support
[41.78 - 41.63]. In this case, the price will tend to slide down to
Intermediary Zone [40.33 — 40.02].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 26.08.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [42.70 - 42.55]. TakeProfit: 43.50, Gold Zone [45.04 - 44.67]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [41.78 - 41.63]. TakeProfit: 43.50, Gold Zone [45.04 - 44.67]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

In the medium-term chart, the gold price is trading in the range of
[1957.9 - 1913.1]. According to margin zones, the gold medium-term trend
is up. I suggest entering new purchases according to the pattern with a
target in Target Zone 2 [2044.9 – 2036.2].

If bears break out level 1913.1 and consolidate the price below, the
gold middle-term trend will turn down, and we shall sell the precious
metal.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 26.08.2020][4]

The short-term gold trend is down. The downside target is to break
through the low of last week and break out Target Zone [1922.4 -
1913.1].

The price is now close to the previous local low. Traders are likely to
break out the support zone.

Today, I suggest holding down the sell traders entered in Intermediary
Zone [1962.6 – 1957.9] and entering new shorts in the correction
according to the pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 26.08.2020][5]

###

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1962.6 - 1957.9].
TakeProfit: 1912.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The EUR/USD is trading in the middle-term uptrend; the price is above
the key support [1.1783 – 1.1765]. Enter purchases according to the
pattern with a target at the August high.

If Target Zone is broken out, we shall sell the euro with a downside
target in the lower Target Zone 2 [1.1601 — 1.1583].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 26.08.2020][7]

In the shorter timeframe, the euro is trading under the resistance
Intermediary Zone [1.1854 – 1.1845]. The downtrend continues. Enter sell
trades in the zone with a target at the low of last week.

An alternative scenario to buy the EUR/USD. The price breaks out IZ, and
the US session closes above the zone. In this case, we shall buy in the
new uptrend with a target in the upper Target Zone [1.1954 – 1.1936].

According to technical analysis, the market situation is not clear in
the H1 timeframe. So, I do not recommend entering any trades now. Expect
a relevant trading signal to open a position.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 26.08.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1854 - 1.1845].
TakeProfit: 1.1755, Gold Zone [1.1692 - 1.1683]. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 26.08.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_260820_1.png?w=30&s=687fdd9cdae5e9ddf9a93a992b1efcb5
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_260820_2.png?w=30&s=d4223417eb966abc44fac1aed4bcc337
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_260820_1.png?w=30&s=1baf1586cabb0fac3de1021eb45b3f13
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_260820_2.png?w=30&s=0a1a0f6d7fc363e2405eabda0afab594
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_260820_1.png?w=30&s=17907c0b79c411e9bd1631bb4f5cda14
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_260820_2.png?w=30&s=54426bc66bdb390b72df8c46b41d2ce2
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-26082020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-26082020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_104.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=7bd99b4bdb6ceaee12300dc105d0d9e6