+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-26"
description = "Forecast for NZDUSD for 26 August 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for NZDUSD for 26 August 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 26, 2020

August 26, 2020

Forecast for NZD/USD: who will trust in kiwi?Dmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental oil forecast for the NZ dollar for today

### Betting on outsiders is risky, but nothing ventured, nothing gained

One of the main investment principles says: Buy cheap and sell high. The
New Zealand dollar is the worst performer in the G10 group, but the
country’s economy can’t be called “a disaster.” So, the obvious question
is whether the NZ dollar is cheap. If it is, traders have an excellent
opportunity to buy the underestimated asset.

Until recently, the whole world would envy New Zealand: there hadn’t
been any new Covid cases for 102 days. Unfortunately, the pandemic is
back, and Jacinda Ardern’s government had to lock down Auckland until
30th August. Westpac estimates that the largest city’s lockdown cuts GDP
by NZ$300 million a week, approximately. At the same time, most losses
will be clawed back fast after the lockdown is lifted. The Reserve Bank
believes that GDP reduced by 14.3% in Q2 and will grow 12.2% in Q3. At
August’s meeting, the regulator expanded the QE from NZ$60 to NZ$100 and
announced it is ready to introduce negative rates if needed. After that
dovish rhetoric, the forward market expected that the cash rate would
have been cut by 40 base points by July 2021, which became the main
factor in kiwi’s depreciation.

Wellington is exaggerating the scale of distress. Everything is
comparative, and New Zealand’s situation around Covid-19 is better than
the US one. The Reserve Bank is ready to cut rates, if necessary, but it
believes in a bright future, forecasting that the cash rate will remain
at the level of 0.25%.

### Dynamics of US and NZ coronavirus cases

![LiteForex: Forecast for NZDUSD for 26 August 2020][1]

 _Source: Trading Economics._

Remember that New Zealand’s leading trade partner is China, whose
economy has been recovering fast after the pandemic. According to JP
Morgan, China’s GDP will grow by 2.5% in 2020, while its American peer
will lose 8-9%. The talks between Washington and Beijing reduced the
possibility of a new trade war, which will allow China’s economy to get
back to the trend fast. Unlike Canberra, Wellington doesn’t have any
diplomatic issues with Beijing, so the latter will hardly initiate anti-
dumping inquiries.

### GDP estimates for China, World, and Advanced economies

### ![LiteForex: Forecast for NZDUSD for 26 August 2020][2]

 _Source: Wall Street Journal._

Along with the exaggerated concern about New Zealand’s economy and the
fast recovery of China’s GDP, there’s one more factor that indicates
kiwi’s underestimate: growing milk prices. According to January
Innovation, California’s heatwave may cut US milk output by 10%.

### NZD/USD and milk prices

### ![LiteForex: Forecast for NZDUSD for 26 August 2020][3]

 _Source: Trading Economics._

I think the New Zealand dollar is currently underestimated. Given the
local economy’s and the Chinese economy’s recovery, and the commodity
market’s favorable state, I’d recommend opening long positions in
[NZD/USD][4] at retracements with medium-term targets at 0.68 and 0.7.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of NZDUSD in real time mode

![Forecast for NZD/USD: who will trust in kiwi?][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/covid-usa-nz-26-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=d5966898f0e53947c4684c6647c0a99f
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/gdp-26-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=56de50dc5d4e4b74a6651abe1467625b
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/milk-nzd-26-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=003c0931915c7ce450d4b893ec81427f
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NZDUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forecast-for-nzdusd-who-will-trust-in-kiwi&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forecast-for-nzdusd-who-will-trust-in-kiwi&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-nzdusd-26-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=00a6bb5bef52d5101bc37caf25086bd6