+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-30"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, EURUSD for 2"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, EURUSD for 2"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-30

2020-10-30

Medium-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD 30.10.2020Alex Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest trading
signals for traders who trade in medium-term trends.

There is an interesting situation developing on the EURUSD chart of a
large time frame.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for next week: USCrude analysis

Shorts according to the pattern made in Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]
this week worked out - Target Zone [37.34 - 36.72] was reached.

Now on the chart of a large timeframe, oil is breaking through the key
support level of the medium-term uptrend [37.34 - 36.72]. There is
already one close of the American trading session below the level. It
all depends on whether sellers will be able to consolidate below the
zone today.

I can also see how the price breaks through the lower border of the flat
zone - 36.03. If it consolidates below, consider shorts at a retest of
the level. The target for shorts will be Target Zone 2 [31.14 - 30.52].

### [USCrude ][1]Trading tips for the upcoming week:

Wait for consolidation below the level of 36.03, then sell on a retest.
TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [31.14 - 30.52]. StopLoss: 38.15.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for next week: XAUUSD analysis

Traders formed a “double top” pattern and broke through the support
level [1890.5 - 1882.5] this week. The medium-term trend remains a
downward one.

Next week, trade using a short pattern. I suggest looking for an entry
point in the zone [1895.7 - 1882.5]. The target for shorts will be
Target Zone 2 [1829.4 - 1820.1].

Entering longs on gold is unreasonable at the moment.

### [XAUUSD][2] Trading tips for the upcoming week:

Sell according to the pattern in Target Zone [1951.0 - 1941.7].
TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [1829.4 - 1820.1]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/dollar price forecast for next week: EURUSD analysis

There is an interesting situation developing on the EURUSD chart of a
large time frame. On the one hand, the resistance, Target Zone [1.1832 -
1.1812], was broken through last week. According to the methodology, the
trend changed to an upward one.

On the other hand, this week there was a powerful decrease in prices, a
breakout of the trend line and the development of a “false breakout”
reversal pattern.

Now the euro stopped going down at the Target Zone [1.1648 - 1.1625].
Large buyers may start working in this zone, that's why it is not the
right moment to sell the EURUSD pair now.

If the support level is broken out, the medium-term trend will change to
a downtrend, according to the methodology.

### [EURUSD][3] Trading tips for the upcoming week:

Sell on a correction in the zone [1.1777 - 1.1765]. TakeProfit: Target
Zone [1.1648 - 1.1625]. StopLoss: 1.1810.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-30102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-30102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus