+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-10"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 10.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 10.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 10, 2020

August 10, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 10.08.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Big traders are trying to break out the strong resistance at Target Zone
5 [41.67 – 40.92]. They have not yet broken out the zone, so we can sell
oil in the correction.

The middle-term oil trend is still up. It will be more relevant to buy
at good prices than to sell. Good buy prices are in the trend key
support zone [37.23 — 36.61].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 10.08.2020][1]

The short-term oil trend is up. Traders are trying to break out Target
Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. The trend key support is in the zone of [40.33 –
40.02].

Today, I suggest expecting the price correction down to this zone and
buying oil according to the pattern with the target at the high of last
week.

Alternative scenario. The price breaks out the trend key support and
consolidates below. In this case, we shall sell oil with a target in the
lower Target Zone [37.23 - 36.61]. The oil local trend will turn down in
this case.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 10.08.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:**

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [40.33 - 40.02].
TakeProfit: 43.40. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold is still trading in the middle-term uptrend. Traders have reached
Target Zone 10 [2057.2 – 2051.2], but the zone has not been broken.

The price is being corrected down, the correction target is [1993.0 –
1984.8]. After the key support is tested, I suggest entering purchases
according to the pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 10.08.2020][4]

Let us look at the shorter timeframe and analyze the short-term trend.

The gold local trend remains up. Traders are testing the trend key
support [2034.0 – 2030.0]. First of all, we shall enter new gold
purchases according to the pattern.

If the trend key support is broken through, we shall enter sell trades
with a target at the lower [1993.0 – 1984.8]. The zone will be broken
out if the US session consolidates the price below level 2030.0.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 10.08.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [2034.0 - 2030.0].
TakeProfit: 2074.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The EUR/USD is trading in the middle-term uptrend. Last week, traders
were trying to break out Target Zone 4 [1.1914 - 1.1896]. They failed.

The price is now being corrected. The trend key support is in the zone
of [1.1733 - 1.1715]. I suggest entering new buy trades according to the
pattern in the support zone. The upside target will be to break through
the local high.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 10.08.2020][7]

The EUR/USD short-term trend has reversed down. It is relevant to enter
sell trades with a target in the lower Target Zone [1.1733 – 1.1715].
The price is 70% likely to reach this zone.

I recommend entering sell trades in the strong resistance zones. The
strong resistances are:

  1. Additional Zone [1.1805 - 1.1800].

  2. Intermediary Zone [1.1855 - 1.1846].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 10.08.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1805 - 1.1800]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1733 - 1.1715]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1855 - 1.1846]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1733 - 1.1715]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 10.08.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_100820_1.png?w=30&s=a75fcaaa26fbf8a18a43e58f9176300e
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_100820_2.png?w=30&s=cb78e8bc40c09802e99ece67a816539c
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_100820_1.png?w=30&s=25bf6396f341852d0e2f797291fb4c41
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_100820_2.png?w=30&s=eddfc5629fc556c6daf9cb92078c1ea4
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_100820_1.png?w=30&s=680c7b8cf8f8e3828938e881558e875e
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_100820_2.png?w=30&s=ff5a0d4bea4d7f8fdd9b3ad434d967bc
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-10082020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-10082020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_08_1000x545.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=1d48b6b3bb979dddfe30e506444d219c