+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-10"
description = "Marshall Gittler’s weekly comment: the week in review"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Marshall Gittler’s weekly comment: the week in review"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 10, 2020

August 10, 2020

Marshall Gittler’s weekly comment: the week in reviewMarshall Gittler

Two little words from Fed Chair Jerome Powell set the markets on fire
this week. He said, “Interest rates…remain just below the broad range of
estimates of the level that would be neutral for the economy…” The
phrase “just below” is a huge change from last month, when he said rates
were “a long way” from neutral, and that “we may go past neutral.” He
also noted yesterday that the impacts of [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) “may take a year or more
to be fully realized.” Powell could be setting the stage for a pause in
the Fed’s rate hiking cycle after the December hike while they assess
the impact of the hikes so far.

You can see here how the market’s expectations of how much further rates
are likely to rise have been drifting lower ever since the last FOMC
meeting, and how expectations lurched lower still after Powell spoke.
The market is now pricing in only two more rate hikes, even though the
FOMC is forecasting four or five more.

![LiteForex: ][1]

This change is likely to have a substantial impact on the dollar. The
graph below shows that for the last several years, the dollar has
basically tracked the expected rise in Fed funds. But with the market
now expecting either a slower pace of hikes or even a pause, the dollar
is likely to come under some pressure.

![LiteForex: ][2]

Personally, I must admit I was surprised by his comments and still am.
The real Fed funds rate is currently around 0.2%. Meanwhile, the economy
is growing by 3.5% qoq SAAR. Since when does an economy growing at that
pace need virtually free money to sustain its growth?

![LiteForex: ][3]

This raises the awkward question of what happened over the last month to
cause him to change his tune. Was it Trump’s bleating about the Fed
being his biggest problem? Was it the stock market’s wobble – not that
much really considering the market hasn’t had a serious correction in a
long time. Perhaps the recent signs of weakness in the housing market?

There are only two things I can think that reflect well on the Fed. The
first is if they think growth may not be as robust as they previously
believed.

![LiteForex: ][4]

The other possibility is that they expected Thursday’s slightly lower-
than-expected personal consumption expenditure (PCE) deflators. The core
PCE deflator slipped to 1.8% yoy from 2.0% yoy (1.9% expected), while
the headline figure was unchanged at 2.0% (2.1% expected). While this
may still qualify as being “near 2%,” as they said, it’s moving in the
wrong direction. Together with weaker-than-expected German inflation and
the downturn in oil prices, it suggests maybe they won’t be exceeding
their 2% inflation target any time soon. This downturn in inflation
could be why they think after the December rate hike, they should become
more data-dependent. In any event, more data-dependency = more
uncertainty = weaker dollar.

Separately, the Bank of England published a study of “EU withdrawal
scenarios and monetary and financial stability.” It basically set out
what it saw as the four possible results of the Brexit negotiations.
They were: bad, worse, terrible, and disastrous.

![LiteForex: ][5]

It’s significant that according to the Bank, even the best outcome
economically, a “close relationship,” would result in lower growth for
Britain than under the current set-up. The worst outcome, a disorderly
Brexit, would apparently be a disaster, with output plunging by nearly
8% and not recovering to current levels four four years at least. (Note
that during the 2008 Global Financial Crisis, output fell 6.5%.)

The report was compiled at the request of the Treasury Select Committee
of Parliament. BoE Gov. Carney and some other colleagues will testify to
the panel on Tuesday morning. Treasury officials and Chancellor of the
Exchequer Hammond will also be testifying sometime during the week about
their analysis, which is somewhat less bleak but negative nonetheless
(it wasn’t based on the current proposal, but rather those agreed by the
Cabinet back in July).

This is why I’m basically negative on sterling almost regardless of the
results of the negotiations – I think they portend a return to the low-
growth, high-inflation Britain of years gone by that will force the Bank
to choose between supporting a flagging economy and suppressing pass-
through inflation from a weakening currency.

 **The upcoming week: RBA, Bank of Canada, NFP**

The coming week has two central bank meetings and the monthly panic over
the US nonfarm payrolls, plus the purchasing managers’ indices (PMIs)
for every place that hasn’t announced them yet.

Really, there’s little to discuss about Tuesday’s Reserve Bank of
Australia (RBA) meeting. Although the RBA meets more than most other
central banks (11 times a year), these meetings aren’t particularly
illuminating. The market doesn’t even see a 50% probability of a rate
hike until December of next year. Once again, this meeting is likely to
be pretty much a non-event for the markets.

![LiteForex: ][6]

The Bank of Canada is more in play. While nobody expects a hike at
Wednesday’s meeting (the odds are 1.8%), something is expected early
next year – the odds for a hike at the January meeting are 65%, rising
to 82% for the April meeting. So the market thinks a hike is coming,
just not now.

![LiteForex: ][7]

In that case, it will be important to hear their assessment of the
economy, particularly as growth slows. They too may decide to pause in
their rate hiking cycle if they think the Fed is going to do so, lest
they lose competitiveness vis-à-vis their most important trading
partner.

![LiteForex: ][8]

Outside of that, of course as usual in the first week of the month,
attention will focus on the nonfarm payrolls (NFP). As I say every
month, I don’t think the focus should be on payrolls – employment has
already surpassed the Fed’s target, so moving further into full
employment isn’t going to affect their [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). Rather, attention should
be on the rate of change in average hourly earnings. That’s a harbinger
of inflation, which is the key variable nowadays for the FOMC.

In any case, the NFP figure is expected to be up 203k, which is about
par for the course – the six-month moving average of the initial figure
is 196k, so this would be quite in line with the recent trend.

![LiteForex: ][9]



The average hourly earnings on the other hand are forecast to rise at a
faster mom pace than in the previous month, with the yoy rate remaining
the same – above 3%. Now, once could be just a fluke, but twice in a row
is the start of a trend. I think this might get people to rethink the
conclusions they drew from Powell’s speech and put a bid under the
dollar.

![LiteForex: ][10]

Speaking of Powell, he’ll be testifying before the Joint Economic
Committee of Congress on Wednesday. That’s bound to be a highlight of
the week. We may get some clarification of his comments and the
reasoning behind them – how much is he worried about the economy
slowing? Also, Atlanta Fed President Bostic speaks on Thursday and Gov.
Brainard speaks on Friday. They’re both voting members and so well worth
listening to.

Other US events worth watching include the ISM indices, out on Monday
and Wednesday.

![Marshall Gittler’s weekly comment: the week in review][11]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/3888e52c1880fa13166daeb8e2a976e0.png
   2. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/3c593fcb1b46ff4700994da581c9e4d8.png
   3. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/b2517732f9d86fdd6d2ae3e76949d728.png
   4. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/209cd71817213282437834aef125704d.png
   5. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/caabfef1911373a7e3542c4461bb6193.png
   6. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/1b8e62f9b026caf58e0f32ed408aa17e.png
   7. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/0b263606621afc9fd084e801578288dc.png
   8. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/736c31df7dfe44a79363748159b04e61.png
   9. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/90bdf8c310142c815f17ec78377121f4.png
   10. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/9ea3de0111b35002488d0f70136be84c.png
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog/marshall/marshall-2.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1412ff690078f3e8f044dd6d6a843a43