+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-10"
description = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 10, 2020

August 10, 2020

Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysisRoman Onegin

## Forecast for BTCUSD, LTCUSD, ETHUSD, EOSUSD, XRPUSD pairs

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[BTCUSD][1]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][2]**

Since the beginning of 2018, the market has been moving in the
corrective wave 4. Presumably, it should complete as a double zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]. There is now forming the linking upward wave [X] as a
double zigzag. After the sub-waves (W) and (X) completed, the market has
started rising in the upward wave (Y) that is composed of the sub-waves
A-B-C. There is likely to be developing the upward impulse A. Let us see
its structure in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][3]

Impulse wave A is composed of five sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5].
Corrective wave [4] has completed as a horizontal contracting triangle
(a)-(b)-(c)-(d)-(e). Wave [5] is now unfolding. There is likely to be
developing correction (4) that is composed of the sub-waves a-b-c. Over
the next few weeks, the price should decline in a short impulse c. Next,
the market is expected to be rising in the sub-wave (5) towards level
12600, as it is outlined in the chart.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[ETHUSD][4]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][5]**

The [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) timeframe of the ETHUSD displays the upward linking wave [X]
that is an element of the global triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. Wave
[X] is developing as a double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y). There is now forming
the bullish wave (Y) as a simple zigzag A-B-C. Let us see this wave in
more detail in the eight-hour timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][6]

Sub-waves A and B have completed within the zigzag-shaped wave (Y). Wave
A is a five-wave impulse. There is now forming the final impulse wave C
that has been half-completed so far. The price should be rising in wave
C to a level of 545.00. At this target level, wave (Y) will be 161.8% of
the previous zigzag-shaped wave (W). An approximate trajectory of the
Ethereum future price movement is outlined in the chart.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[LTCUSD][7]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][8]**

The LTCUSD market is forming the triple downward zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. There now forming the final element of this zigzag,
wave [Z]. Wave [Z] is a plain bearish zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). Within this
zigzag, the impulse wave (A) has finished, and the corrective wave (B)
is unfolding. Let us see its structure in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][9]

The down impulse wave (A) has finished, and the market is now forming
the bearish corrective wave (B). The (B) correction is a simple zigzag
A-B-C. Wave A is a leading diagonal, as wave [4] of A has exceeded the
end of wave [1] of A. Wave B is a triple three. There is now developing
the impulse wave C that is composed of five sub-waves
[1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5]. The price should continue rising in the sub-waves
[3]-[4]-[5] to a level of 83.00.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[EOSUSD][10]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][11]**

The EOSUSD market is developing the long-term down zigzag, where the
down zigzag [Y] of a smaller degree has recently completed. There is now
forming the linking upward wave [X]. Wave [X] may complete as a simple
zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). This zigzag should conclude at a level of around
4.40, which is the resistance. Let us see the structure of the wave [X]
in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][12]

There have completed sub-waves A and B, where A is an impulse, B is a
bearish double zigzag. Impulse wave C is still developing. It is
composed of five sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. Correction 4 is likely to be
developing as a contracting triangle, it should soon finish. Next, the
market could be rising in the final wave 5 to a level of 4.40. An
approximate trajectory of the EOSUSD future price movement is outlined
in the chart.

* * *

###  **Wave analysis for[XRPUSD][13]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][14]**

Like other major cryptocurrencies, the XRPUSD market is following the
global downward triple zigzag. Its four parts have completed, and the
linking upward wave [X] is now forming. Wave [X] is unfolding as a
simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). There have completed the upward impulse wave
(A) and the corrective wave (B). Impulse wave (C) is still unfolding.
Let us see its structure in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][15]

After the down corrective wave (B) completed as a do9uble zigzag W-X-Y,
the market has started rising in the final impulse wave (C). Wave (C) is
composed of five sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. Presumably, the corrective wave 4
is developing as a double three. When it completes, the market could be
rising in wave 5 to a level of 0.354. An approximate trajectory of the
Ripple future price movement is outlined in the chart.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][16]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][17] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysis][18]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/10-08-2020X/BTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=63ccbc5121dd613c089fd07a0e6774c4
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/10-08-2020X/BTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=d9f89cdadcbf494a1d063f6ad2ee0748
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/10-08-2020X/ETHUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=8cab5b7edfba2eccdaea5246307848e0
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/10-08-2020X/ETHUSDH8.png?w=30&s=2da3d1c1253bb2622738725491d6dd45
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/10-08-2020X/LTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=b9537864fc61a9f4840ff99c7ce15f85
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/10-08-2020X/LTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=bece493f68aea51fc7bdad8fc86bc90c
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/10-08-2020X/EOSUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=626b03bc86f4470e7732b2baef7ae5a6
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/10-08-2020X/EOSUSDH8.png?w=30&s=ded9ae78bcdff74ce5d0e171efc3ac99
   13. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/10-08-2020X/XRPUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=8c1f9dce5140e7632d5ea37f47db61a4
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/10-08-2020X/XRPUSDH8.png?w=30&s=7a6d82c57328a88efb41a82c9ddc18bd
   16. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-08-10&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   17. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-08-10&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/1-elliott-waves-weekly-forecast-for-[BTC](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/who-is-the-creator-of-bitcoin/)usd-ethusd-ltcusd-eosusd-xrpusd_1000x545.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1480cfce2406c81b57be8a77076342f1