+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-15"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 15.09.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 15.09.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-15

2020-09-15

Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 15.09.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

The middle-term oil trend hasn’t changed. Traders are testing the key
support of the middle-term uptrend [37.34 – 36.72]. Expect a pattern and
enter purchases with the target at the high of August.

If the zone is broken through and the price consolidates below, the
middle-term trend will turn down. If so, we shall sell oil with a target
at the lower Target Zone 2 [31.14 — 30.52].

The oil short-term trend is down. Sellers are trying to break out Target
Zone [37.34 - 36.72] and consolidate the price below. If they succeed,
the next downside target will be Gold Zone [34.24 – 33.93].

Oil is trading under the resistance Additional Zone [37.73 – 37.58]. For
today, I recommend entering sell trades according to the pattern with
the target at the low of last week.

If Additional Zone is broken out, the price will be further corrected up
to Intermediary Zone [39.44 – 39.13]. Intermediary Zone is the border of
the short-term downtrend, so, it is relevant to enter sell trades in the
zone.

###  **[USCrude][1]trading ideas for today:**

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [37.73 - 37.58]. TakeProfit: 36.10. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [39.44 - 39.13]. TakeProfit: 36.10. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

The gold price has approached the last resistance level. When the level
is broken out, there will be a buy pattern. We shall monitor the test of
the level today.

In the shorter timeframe, traders are trying to reverse the trend up.
Buyers are testing the last resistance level held buy sellers, the
resistance is at 1966.5. If the price consolidates above the resistance,
the short-term gold trend will turn up, and we shall enter purchases up
to the upper Target Zone [2008.8 – 1999.5].

If the price rolls down under Intermediary Zone [1957.7 – 1953.0], it
will be relevant to sell. If so, the target will be the lower Target
Zone [1899.4 - 1890.1]. The main scenario now is to sell.

###  **[XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:**

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1957.7 - 1953.0].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1899.4 - 1890.1]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

EUR/USD middle-term uptrend continues, the price is trading above the
key support [1.1811 – 1.1791]. I suggest expecting a buy pattern and
enter long trades according to the pattern with a target at Target Zone
5 [1.2096 — 1.2078].

The short-term trend is up. There appeared a buy pattern in Intermediary
Zone [1.1817 – 1.1807] yesterday. Today, I recommend buying the euro
with the target in Target Zone [1.1973 – 1.1953].

The trend key support is in the zone [1.1817 – 1.1807]. If the price
breaks through the high of September 10, we shall rearrange the support
zone.

It will be relevant to sell when there is a sell pattern, which will
emerge if sellers take control of the market situation.

###  **[EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:**

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1817 - 1.1807].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1973 - 1.1953]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-15092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-15092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus