+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-03"
description = "Australian dollar price forecast 3 August 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Australian dollar price forecast 3 August 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=10.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-08-03

2021-08-03

RBA supports Australian dollar. Forecast as of 03.08.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

The RBA meeting must have supported the [AUDUSD][1] bulls. Despite the
lockdown in Sydney, the Australian central bank is not willing to
abandon the monetary normalization. Will it become a unique example? Let
us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Monthly Australian dollar fundamental forecast

History repeats itself and often rhymes. At the end of July, the US
dollar speculative longs reached the highest level since March 2020. The
exiting of buy trades amid the lack of Jerome Powell’s signals about a
soon tapering of the QE has significantly weakened the greenback. Soon
after, the Australian dollar has surged amid the [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) that the RBA is
about to scale back the monetary stimulus. By this time, hedge funds
have boosted the Aussie shorts to the highest levels since March 2020.

The actions of both central banks surprised the market majority. Ahead
of the RBA meeting, 13 of 18 Bloomberg experts predicted that the
central bank would abandon a plan to trim purchases of government bonds
to AU$4 billion a week from September, from the current weekly pace of
AU$5 billion. Westpac even expected an increase in the QE pace to AU $6
billion per week. According to the company, due to the increase in the
number of COVID-19 cases and lockdowns in Sydney, Australia’s economy
will face a W-shaped recovery; the labor market will lose 200,000 —
300,000 jobs, and the unemployment rate will rise from 4.9% to 5.7%.

### Dynamics of consumer confidence and number of COVID-19 cases in
Australia



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Sydney plays an important part in Australia’s economy. It accounts for
about 25% of Australia's GDP and 22% of employment. The city's isolation
significantly raises the risks of a second recession, but the RBA chose
not to make any sudden moves. Once coronavirus outbreaks are contained,
the economy rebounds quickly, with significant government support and
vaccination programs giving a reason for optimism, Philip Lowe said. The
weekly QE pace will be reduced from September, as planned, from AU $5
billion to AU $4 billion. The Reserve Bank still does not expect the
cash rate to increase before 2024.

The [AUDUSD][1] bulls seem to be encouraged, but the things are not as
bright as they look. Unlike the previous global recession, when the
explosive growth of China's GDP and iron ore prices allowed the Aussies
to reach parity with the greenback, this time the commodity market alone
cannot support the Australian dollar. The deteriorating epidemiological
situation and fears of a soon economic downturn are not the only AUD
bearish drivers.

COVID-19 is coming back to China, its economy is slowing down, as
evidenced by the decline in China’s Caixin manufacturing PMI to a
15-month low. Tense diplomatic relations between Canberra and Beijing
are further exacerbating the situation. In addition, amid the growing
popularity of the yuan, which already accounts for 4.3% of [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) Forex
trading, the Australian dollar has become less attractive as a proxy for
Chinese growth.

### Monthly [AUDUSD][1] trading plan

In my opinion, the main risk factor for the Aussie at the end of the
summer will be the correction of the US stock indexes amid problems with
the government debt ceiling and the active withdrawal of liquidity from
the market through the Fed reverse repo transactions. As a result, the
[AUDUSD][1] should continue falling in value. It will be reasonable to
sell the pair on the rise towards 0.74, 0.7425 and 0.7485 or on the
breakout of the support at 0.733. I suggest the downside target at
0.722.







## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true