+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-03"
description = "Forecast for USD price for 3 August 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for USD price for 3 August 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-08-03

2021-08-03

Dollar acts secretly. Forecast as of 03.08.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Hats off to the Fed! It is efficiently fighting inflation using reverse
REPO operations and has managed to avoid taper hysteria. How does it
impact the [EURUSD][1]? Let’s check it out and make a trading plan.

## Weekly fundamental forecast for dollar

Actions are louder than words, both in life and in the market. The Fed
is "lulling" financial markets, saying that several strong US employment
reports are required to start raising rates and withdrawing QE, but in
fact, the central bank has already stepped into monetary restriction.
Reverse-repo borrowing went from $272 billion to $1.26 trillion, which
equals eight months of QE at $120 billion per month! Pumped with money,
the economy has almost overlooked the Fed's activities.

When the Fed's balance sheet had grown from $900 billion to $4.5
trillion from 2008 to 2014, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s expected an inflation boom, but
that didn't happen: reverse Repo borrowing had increased by $2.6
trillion, and the M2 money supply, therefore, had grown just by 7%. In
Q2, M2 growth rates fell to 4%, from 25% in 2020.

The Fed has been combating inflation efficiently, draining money from
the financial system and tapering QE smoothly. Thus, the question of a
rate hike isn't on the radar. At the same time, the US dollar can't
spread its wings due to Fed's 'glacial' normalization pace.

The USD index got stuck in the range of 79-84 in 2012-2014 and only
started growing one year before the rate hike at the end of 2015. If
[history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) repeats itself and the Fed increases borrowing costs in 2023,
the US dollar may rally in 2022. Until then, USD buyers have to be
patient or hope that things will be developing faster.

### Dynamics of USD index

 _Source: Trading Economics._

Inversely, USD sellers count on a W-shape recovery of the US economy. A
new collapse may be caused not so much by Delta as by Congress's
unwillingness to raise or suspend the debt ceiling, which will lead to
default and serious trouble for the US economy. So, it’s not surprising
that bond yields continue dropping, putting a spoke in [EURUSD][1]
bears' wheels.

I think the USD won't feel OK without upbeat labor reports for July and
August and US inflation remaining high. The eurozone starts recovering,
and a further spike in consumer prices will provoke hawkish attacks
within the ECB. I expect that the Americans will search for jobs more
actively as economic relief programs will expire in autumn. Rent costs
will increase and thus raise CPI and PCE even more. So, the probability
of a federal funds rate hike in 2022 will strengthen, and the dollar
will get stronger. However, the euro may bare its teeth in August, and
the major currency pair will consolidate in a range that will be
determined soon.

### Weekly trading plan for [EURUSD][1]

The [EURUSD][1] is unlikely to move drastically ahead of US labor stats
for July in the short term. A breakout of resistance at 1.1905 may lead
to growth to 1.193, and a successful attack on support at 1.1845 – to a
fall to 1.18. However, we will only have a broader consolidation range.







## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true