+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-23"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, EURUSD for 26"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, EURUSD for 26"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-23

2020-10-23

Medium-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD 23.10.2020Alex Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest trading
signals for traders who trade in medium-term trends.

Oil is traded in a flat area on the chart of a large timeframe.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for next week: USCrude analysis

Oil is traded in a flat area on the chart of a large timeframe. At the
top, there is a resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. Below is the
support for Target Zone [37.34 - 36.72]. Flat means there is uncertainty
regarding the further direction of the mid-term price movement.

In such conditions, it is possible to work from the borders of the area:
shorting oil from the upper border, opening longs from the lower one.

Last week I recommended looking for shorts from Target Zone 5 according
to the pattern. It's the same for the next week. Wait for a short
pattern and open short positions on oil with the target at the opposite
level of the range.

To buy oil, another test of the key support of the medium-term trend is
needed, or a breakout of TZ 5 and consolidation above.

### [USCrude ][1]Trading tips for the upcoming week:

  1. Wait for a breakout of Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92], then buy at a retest. TakeProfit: 43.50, Target Zone 6 [49.17 - 48.42].

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [37.34 - 36.72]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for next week: XAUUSD analysis

For gold, the medium-term downtrend continues. This week we saw a retest
of the previous week's high. However, traders failed to update the high.
As a result, the price went down a bit at the end of the week.

However, there is still no pattern for shorts. It will appear if sellers
are able to break through the support level [1890 - 1882]. In this case,
there will be a “double top” pattern.

Next week, if they fail to break through the support level, wait for a
test of the key resistance of the trend [1951.0 - 1941.7]. Then look for
a new pattern to open shorts.

### [XAUUSD][2] Trading tips for the upcoming week:

Sell according to the pattern in Target Zone [1951.0 - 1941.7].
TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [1829.4 - 1820.1]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/dollar price forecast for next week: EURUSD analysis

As for the euro, buyers failed to consolidate above the key resistance
of the medium-term downtrend [1.1832 - 1.1812]. The trend remains
downward.

Sell the euro according to the pattern next week. There is no pattern on
the chart yet, wait for it to appear and then sell.

An alternative long trades option is also possible. To buy, Target Zone
[1.1832 - 1.1812] has to broken through and the price has to consolidate
above the zone during the American trading session. If this is the case,
Target Zone 2 [1.2032 - 1.2012] will be the target.

### [EURUSD][3] Trading tips for the upcoming week:

Sell according to the pattern in Target Zone [1.1832 - 1.1812].
TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [1.1611 - 1.1591]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-23102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-23102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus