+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-23"
description = "What changed in the UK-EU relations? Everything and nothing."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "What changed in the UK-EU relations? Everything and nothing."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-23

2020-10-23

Pound will have a new collar. Review as of 23.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

What changed in the UK-EU relations? Everything and nothing.

## You need to pet a dog until a collar is ready

I’d say the most interesting and mysterious event of October’s last week
is the pound’s impressive upsurge.  Less time is left before the
transition period ends, there isn’t any breakthrough in the UK-EU
relations, and [GBPUSD][1] quotes have soared above the bottom of figure
31. Is there anything we don’t know about the pound? What could possibly
change after 5-day talks? Everything and nothing.

The union of the EU and Great Britain could be called perfect. She
married him out of pity and he married her out of compassion. Now they
are divorcing for the same reasons. All understand well the consequences
of a no-deal Brexit during the pandemic. Both David Frost and Michel
Barnier want that deal, but they need their bosses’ support to reach it.
They both were sure they had it on 21 October. The pound grew rapidly in
response to that.

The parties chose different ways to reach a compromise. Brussels
tolerates Johnson’s every freak: they know you need to pet a dog until a
collar is ready. London has to behave inadequately to gain local
eurosceptics’ favour.

> \- A girl only needs to put on a red dress to draw attention!

>

> \- Well, a boy also only needs to put on a red dress to draw
attention!

The British PM is choosing weird clothes, indeed: he used an Internal
Market Bill to violate the international law or said Michel Barnier
should not come to the UK unless he had some constructive suggestions.
The EU thinks he is just showing off, and the markets don’t believe his
single word: his theatrical performance reminds of last year’s one when
he used threats for extending the transition period. At the same time,
the British citizens are mentioning Incas and Aztecs more and more
often. Those tribes sacrificed their leaders during pandemics. I’m not
suggesting anything...but that was a beautiful custom.

> \- Don’t be afraid! I’m with you!

>

> \- And that frightens me.

At first glance, nothing changed in the week of the EU and Britain’s
talks. But in fact, everything changed. The EU is ready to draw back
from its principle of parallelism – a ban on certain topics until
Britain makes compromises in other areas. The denouement is near. The
issue of state subsidies and fishing doesn’t seem an insuperable
obstacle any longer. That’s the key difference from what was up at the
beginning of October:

> \- Brussels, may I decide myself whether or nor I should report on
business subsidies?

>

> \- London, I’m going to explain everything in simple [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/). Do you see
my middle finger?

Britain has got loads of problems, but there’s light at the end of the
tunnel too. Now it can make trading deals with other countries and
openly express its love for those it really loves. Japan, for example.

> \- I’ve been married for 10 years and loved only her.

>

> \- Wow! That’s an exceptional case in marriage.

>

> \- I only hope my wife doesn’t find out.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][2]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][3] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=pound-will-have-a-new-collar-review-as-of-23102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   3. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=pound-will-have-a-new-collar-review-as-of-23102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus