+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-08"
description = "What is equity in Forex, the difference between equity and balance"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "What is equity in Forex, the difference between equity and balance"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-10-08

2021-10-08

The difference between equity and balance in ForexAlex Rodionov

We continue discussing the basics of Forex. This article will deal with
the definitions of balance and equity and explain the difference between
these two concepts.

Well, the definition of the account balance is simpler, so let us start
with it.

> The trading account balance is the amount of trader’s money at the
moment without considering opened positions.

The balance reflects the profit/loss only from closed positions. The
open positions and margin (collateral) are not included in the balance.

Now, let me explain the concept of equity. If we try to look up the word
in the dictionary, the closest in meaning synonym will be capital. The
capital means not only the current balance but also the profit (or loss)
from the financial assets you have invested in.

Equity includes the total result of the trading operations and balance
at the current moment. I will present the same ideas in the formula
below:

> Equity = balance + current result of the opened positions + swap –
broker’s commission.

Equity could be lower than the balance in the following cases:

  1. Existing trades are currently losing.

  2. The profit from trades does not compensate for the swap or the broker’s commission.

Equity will be higher than the balance if the profit for existing trades
is greater than the swap and broker’s commission.

Again, the primary difference between the balance and the equity is that
the balance doesn’t include opened positions while the equity includes
all current changes. So, the equity is a floating value; it could change
at each specific time.

> Important: equity doesn’t include margin

In MetaTrader 4, the balance is displayed in the Trade and Exposure
tabs.

Differently put, equity means the sum of your account balance and all
floating (unrealized) profits or losses associated with your open
positions.

Why should the trader monitor equity?

Equity reflects the current situation on all opened positions of a
trader. If you subtract the margin from the equity, you will calculate
free margin, which could be used to enter new trades. If there is not
enough free margin to hold the positions open, the broker will first
send you a notification that you must top up your balance. If you ignore
this notification and the market goes against you, the broker will close
all your positions forcibly.

The notification about the need to top up your account to avoid closing
positions is called Margin Call.

Forcible closing the position by the broker because of the shortage of
free assets is called Stop out.

Brokers have different limits for Margin call and Stop out. The Stop Out
level is usually about 20%-30%. You can see the Margin Call and Stop Out
levels in [the specification of the Forex account][1]. For example, the
LiteForex broker has the following values for the ECN and Classic
accounts:

You can calculate the Margin Level according to the following formula:

> Margin Level =(equity/margin)*100%

Monitor your equity and free margin level not to lose your deposit. If
you have a working trading system, follow money management, and are
careful with the risk per trade, your account will never reach the stop-
out level.

I wish you successful trading!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][2]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][3] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/trading/account-types/
   2. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=the-difference-between-equity-and-balance-in-forex&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   3. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=the-difference-between-equity-and-balance-in-forex&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus