+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-07"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 07.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 07.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 7, 2020

July 7, 2020

Euro will determine its own fateDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental Euro forecast for today

### The bulls on EUR/USD have a lot of trump cards, both external and
internal

When Chinese media say that promoting a healthy bull market after a
pandemic is more important to the economy than ever, you can buy
indefinitely. Although the growth of Shanghai Composite Index by 14%
over 5 trading days reminds pessimists of a growing bubble similar to
the that of August 2015. In fact, leverage is now half as much, PBOC's
liquidity control is tighter, and faith in a V-shaped economic recovery
of China is a strong argument in favour of the longs.

What is good for China is good for the eurozone. The export-oriented
economy of the euro bloc experienced serious difficulties during the
Beijing and Washington trade wars in 2018-2019, which led to a weakened
euro. The pandemic has changed a lot. China dealt with COVID-19 quite
some time ago, and now Europe can count on the growth of external demand
as the Chinese GDP returns to the trend.

Moreover, the €750 billion bond issue by the European Commission to
fight coronavirus is a tidbit for [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s from Asia. The US Department
of the Treasury should understand that treasuries are not the only game
in the city, and the transfer of capital from the New to the Old World
can affect the dollar badly. According to CrossBorder Capital estimates,
three-quarters of the decline in US Treasury bond yields and a
substantial part of the 30% greenback strengthening since the mid-2000s
are connected with high Chinese demand for US assets. If this process
reverses, the USD index will lose a quarter of its current value. At the
initial stage of this process, the Shanghai Composite Index pulls the
[S&P 500][1] up - that helps to improve the global risk appetite and
leads to the selling of safe-haven assets, including the US dollar.

###  **Dynamics of stock indexes**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 07.07.2020][2]

 _Source: Trading Economics._

It should be noted that the euro is not going to trust its fate
exclusively to Beijing, it has its own trump cards, including a better
epidemiological situation than the United States, the revival of
domestic demand, the unity of the eurozone countries and a strong leader
- Germany. While American unemployment rose from 3.5% in February to
11.1% in June, European unemployment rose from 7.2% in February to 7.4%
in May, retail sales in the euro bloc countries increased in May by a
record 17.8%, German manufacturing orders increased by 10.4%. The EU
stands confidently on its feet, while the US is discussing whether to
expect a second lockdown or not.

###  **Unemployment dynamics**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 07.07.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Europeans managed to avoid a constitutional crisis, and the Bundesbank
will continue to participate in the ECB's quantitative easing program
after approval by the German government and parliament.

Thus, support from China, divergence in the economic growth of the
Eurozone and the USA, as well as the interest of the White House and the
Fed in strong stock indexes create the prerequisites needed for the
continuation of the [EUR/USD][4] rally. The catalyst for further growth
of the pair will be a confident breakthrough of resistance at 1.1335. In
order to prove the seriousness of their intentions, the bulls must hold
the support at 1,129-1,13.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Euro will determine its own fate][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/shanghai-spx-07-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=82c7e88d12c1e06e033a03117258f9f6
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/unepioyment-usa-euro-07-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=c26e2c53d217421abe7b541b772877b3
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-will-determine-its-own-fate&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-will-determine-its-own-fate&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-07-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=153f6335c0961fa13684cf653261751e