+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-07"
description = "Price Sound TS Dinapoli indicator"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Price Sound TS Dinapoli indicator"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 7, 2020

July 7, 2020

Trading DiNapoli levelsMikhail Hypov

## DiNapoli levels trading techniques: Dinapoli Target Malay, Price
Sound TS, and Dinapoli Targets indicators

Dear friends!

In the training series devoted to the NeoWave theory, I many times
referred to the Fibonacci relations and used the Fibo retracements to
identify the Elliott waves. Today, I suggest considering Fibonacci
levels based on the trading system developed by a professional trader,
author, and well-known speaker, Joe DiNapoli, who achieved in trading
everything that most traders can only dream of.

Joe DiNapoli’s trading success mostly results from his own trading
system. DiNapoli managed to develop an absolutely amazing strategy that
combines lagging and leading indicators, which provide together timely
and very accurate signals. His trading system is based on Fibonacci
levels. However, Joe DiNapoli applied the Fibo levels in such an unusual
way that the levels he developed were later called DiNapoli levels.

Today, I will cover in detail all the peculiarities of the DiNapoli
trading system so that you can try in practice on your own.

### The basic concepts of the DiNapoli trading technique

As I have already said, the DiNapoli levels trading method is based on
the Fibonacci levels. However, it employs the simplest horizontal
levels: 38.2%, 50%. 61,8%, and 100%. With a bullish trend, lines are
drawn from top to bottom, with a bearish trend - from bottom to top.
Before I move on to the practice section, I would like to explain the
main principles and concepts that we will need in trading with DiNapoli
levels.

  * Market swing -  distance from the beginning to the end of the price movement, or, in other words, the trend. The DiNapoli levels are plotted on the swing. You can find out in the analysis that the price changes its high or low after the correction. In this case, you should increase the swing, i.e move the 100% level to the new endpoint.
  * Focus point – the level, the correction starts from, that is built after the last price move in the trend direction. There may be multiple points on the chart in one swing zone. When an extremum changes, another focus point appears on a chart, it doesn’t replace the old one.
  * Reaction – a quite popular trading term that means finished correction in a trend movement. Several reactions may form in a single swing.
  * Fibo node - price chart point, at which the correction movement ends. Joe DiNapoli advised working only with nodes found between 38.2% and 61.8% of the previous trend. ll nodes located below 38.2% are too weak, while the ones exceeding 61.8% are too strong (meaning a trend may not recover).
  * Target levels – levels where the position will be closed. These are common Fibonacci extensions 161.8% and 261.8%, extended to the last correction. We shall set take profits at these levels.

### Basic principles of the DiNapoli method

The DiNapoli trading system suggests following a few mandatory rules:

  * The number of swings on the chart is always equal to the amount of focus numbers.
  * Reactions are always located to the left of the focus numbers they are connected with.
  * A focus number is connected to a reaction if it is the highest price point after the reaction in a bull trend. Accordingly, the focus number will be the lowest point in the downtrend.
  * The higher the timeframe, the lesser the number of reactions. When the price detects a strong resistance/support, you are able to find necessary reactions and swings that are not displayed on higher timeframes by using lower ones.

Let us see how the DiNapoli levels are detected in practice on the
example of the [BTCUSD][1] chart.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][2]

The green lines in the chart mark the sections where the price moves in
the trend direction (I will call them mini-swings). The red lines mark
reactions or corrections, whose endpoints (Fibo nodes) are marked with
red numbers. The combination of mini swings and reactions form a market
swing that ends with a focus point marked in the chart with the label
“Fs1”. When I wrote that a swing can include several focus points, I
meant the extreme points of mini swings. When analyzing the first focus
point was the left-most top number 2, which was followed by the reaction
market with number 3. After that, the price break through the high, and
so, the swing continued developing. At the end of the second mini-swing
on the left number 4, there formed the next focus point (5), which was
followed by the correction number 5. The second focus point replaced the
first one. Finally, we got the ultimate true focus point Fs1, after
which the next swing started. As the price failed to break through the
local high (the pink line that marks the level of mini-swing 2 is below
the turquoise line that marks the local high Fs1). Next, there forms the
next swing that is composed of a few mini-swings and ends with the focus
point that is labeled “Fs2” in the chart.

### Construction of DiNapoli levels

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][3]

The red circle in the chart marks the beginning of the swing, the local
low price point. Next, we identify the local high, it is marked with a
green circle in the chart. This point is the focus point now. The swing
is followed by a reaction that ends at the next local low marked with
the right red circle in the chart. We need the following Fibonacci
levels to build DiNapoli levels: 0%, 38.2%, 50%, 61.8% и 100%. The
levels are arranged form 0% to 100% in the direction of the current
trend. For an uptrend, level 0% is set at the focus point, and level
100% is at the beginning of the swing. In a bear trend, the levels are
arranged in the opposite order. Note that the reaction ranges about
61.8% of the swing in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of price. Therefore, the reaction is also
considered in the analysis.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][4]

In further analysis, we identify the swing extension to the next local
high labeled with “4 (Fs)”. The previous swing we analyzed is an element
of the new, extended one. It is marked with numbers 1,2, and 3 in the
chart. Remember, “Fs” means that the next local high is the focus
number. By the way, to determine the DiNapoli levels, entry, and exit
points, you can employ standard tools in the terminals. For example, The
Fibonacci levels are found in almost all on-line trading platforms,
including [LiteForex][5]. Alternative tools are special indicators. The
most popular DiNapoli levels indicators are:

  *  **Dinapoli Target Malay** **is** a simple technical tool, which attaches
  *  **Dinapoli targets metatrader 4 indicator** **.** This is another DiNapoli levels indicator, it is similar to the previous indicator, easy to set up and user-friendly.
  *  **Price Sound TS Dinapoli** **Forex indicator.** It is an analog of the previous indicator that displays Fibonacci levels in different colors and displays the distance of the current asset price from each of the levels. Additionally, the TS Sound trading indicator notifies the user of a trading signal with a text notification and a sound signal.

### Construction of DiNapoli levels extensions

DiNapoli levels trading method is also based on the Fibonacci extensions
grid. I will explain [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) construct the grid. The common grid uses the
levels of 0%, 100%, 161.8%, 261.8%. They are the levels of exiting the
position or the target points for setting a take profit.

The extensions grid is constructed according to the following rules:

  * For a bull trend, level 0% is at the low of the reaction, the next levels are above it.
  * For a bear trend, level 0% is at the high of the reaction, the next levels are below it.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][6]

The above chart displays an example of the DiNapoli extensions grid. We
should go through the following steps. After the reaction to the
preceding swing has formed (it is marked 3 in the chart), we check its
authenticity. As the price reaction retraces the first swing by 61.8%,
we can take it into account and draw the extension levels stating form
it. I marked the extension lines with thicker lines in the chart. Level
161.8% of the first swing is the first target point for a take profit.
As you from the Bitcoin chart, once the price reaches this level, it
rolls back, a new reaction starts forming. If the price went further, we
would use the second target level for a take profit, level 261.8%.

### DiNapoli Levels [trading strategies](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/)

The DiNapoli [trading strategies](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/) can be basically divided into two types:

  * Aggressive. The most popular techniques are the Bushes and Bonsai strategies.
  * Conservative strategies include the Minesweeper A and Minesweeper B methods.

Let study each of these methods in more detail.

### Bonsai trading strategy

This method suggests that the price should roll back from the level of
38.2% and the already formed swing. The trade is entered when the price
goes through level 38.2%. A stop loss is set at a distance less or equal
to the Fibo level of 50%. A take profit is set at the Fibonacci level of
161.8%.

Let me explain the Bonsai trading strategy on an example.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][7]

The [BTCUSD][8] chart above displays the swing, whose end is marked by
number 2. It is followed by the reaction market 3. According to the
Bonsai trading method, we presume that the price will retrace from level
38.2%. At this level, we put a long entry once the bar meets level 38.2%
(the entry point is marked with the blue circle in the chart). After
that, we set a stop loss at the Fibonacci level of 50% (the horizontal
pink line).

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][9]

To identify the target point, we shall draw the DiNapoli extensions
grid, starting from the end of the reaction to the focus number of the
first swing. The target zone is around level 161.8% of this grid (the
red horizontal line in the chart).

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][10]

When the price hits level 161.8% take the profit by exiting the trade
(the exit point is marked with the red oval in the chart).

### The Bushes trading strategy

The DiNapoli Bushes trading strategy is very similar to the Bonsai
DiNapoli strategy. A trade is entered when the price crosses the level
of 38.2%, a take profit is set at level 161.8%. A stop loss is placed
further than the level of 50%. It is usually set around the level of
61.8%.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][11]

The chart displays the swing from the previous example. According to the
Bushes DiNapoli strategy, the price should roll back from level 38.2%,
so, we place an entry here (the blue circle). Next, we set a stop loss
at the level of 61.8% (the pink horizontal line).

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][12]

When the price reaches the level of 161.8% the DiNapoli extensions grid,
we exit the trade (the red circle in the chart.

### DiNapoli Minesweeper A and Minesweeper B strategies

A more conservative and less risky strategy Minesweeper A also suggests
entering a trade at the end of the corrective move. However, the trading
itself is conducted using safety measures. First, we expect until the
first reaction finishes, and there forms the next swing and the second
reaction that should end higher than the first reaction in an uptrend,
and lower than the first one in a downtrend. When the second reaction
completes, we enter a trade. An entry is put immediately after the
reaction end when the price goes back in the direction of the main
trend. We check if the correction has finished using the second Fibo
grid drawn from the beginning to the end of the second swing. The price
should break through level 38.2% and consolidate below (in an uptrend)
or above (in a downtrend). A stop loss is placed close to the local low
(high), and a take profit is at the level of 161.8%, or at 261.8% in
case of a sharp price movement.

In the case with Minesweeper B, the position is opened in the way as in
the previous strategy, but the position is opened after the third
reaction is formed.

Employing the above strategies, we got infrequent market entries.
Besides, the trend is not always developing long enough so that could
form three corrections, whose price range is between 38.2% and 61.8%. On
the other hand, this allows us to sort out false signals, in which the
price correction does not become a continuation of a trend.

Let us see how the Minesweeper A trading strategy works on the example.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][13]

First, we check the authenticity of the first reaction. Its final point
(number 3) is a little higher than level 61.8%. Therefore, this reaction
is the first one.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][14]

After there form the second swing and the following reaction, we see
that the second reaction reaches the level of 38.2% of the entire
formation (the blue circle in the chart), and so, can also take it into
account.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][15]

Having generated the Fibo grid from the beginning to the end of the
second swing, we see that the bar circled with the blue oval ends at
level 38.2%. Presumably, the price has consolidated at level 38.2%, so
we can enter a trade. As the reaction has advanced almost to a level of
50%, we set a stop loss at the level of 61.8% (the pink horizontal line
in the above chart).

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][16]

The target point is, as usual, at the level of 161.8%, counted from the
presumed endpoint of the reaction, in the direction of the main trend.
It is marked with the red line in the chart.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][17]

When the price reaches level 161.8% and stops rising, we exit the trade.

That is all I wanted to write in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of theory. As you see, trading
the DiNapoli levels is quite comprehensive and easy to use. It will suit
both the beginner and professional traders. For traders, who do not have
enough willingness or time for the manual building of levels, there are
DiNapoli levels indicators. They ensure the automatic formation of the
relevant levels and marking of the chart, which will obviously help the
beginner (and not only) Forex traders all the world.

## DiNapoli levels indicators

This section will deal with [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) install, custom, and use the three
free DiNapoli indicators I mentioned in this article. They do not
require special software.

  * Dinapoli Target Malay
  * Price Sound TS Dinapoli
  * Dinapoli targets MetaTrader 4 indicator

### Dinapoli Target Malay indicator

The Dinapoli Target Malay indicator is a simple, user-friendly indicator
suitable for all [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s. It is a trend indicator. It is a trend
indicator that displays the DiNapoli levels attached to the chart as
solid horizontal lines.

### How to install the Dinapoli Target Malay indicator?

Step 1. Download free indicator via this [link][18].



![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][19]

Step 2. Open the File tab in the upper menu of the MetaTrader4 and click
on the Open Data Folder tab.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][20]

The Explorer with the destination folder will open. Select the MQL4
folder.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][21]

Next, open the Indicators folder.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][22]

Step 3. Copy and paste the file DinapoliTarget_Malay.mq4 that you have
downloaded at the first step and extracted, next restart your MetaTrader
platform.

Step 4. Open the chart where you want to install the indicator. In our
example, it is the [BTCUSD][1] chart. Click on the Insert tab in the
upper menu of the chart. Next, open the Indicators tab and click on the
Custom menu. Select the indicator you have installed. In our case, it is
DinapoliTarget_Malay.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][23]

You will see the indicator window. Click on the OK button and run the
indicator with the default settings, which is ready for work.

### Custom Dinapoli Target Malay

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][24]

In the Common settings, you can enable and disable permissions available
for the indicator.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][25]

There are more settings in the Inputs tab. You can change the values of
the variables, enable and disable different [functions](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/basic-functions/). I will present
the full list of the Dinapoli Target Malay indicator [functions](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/basic-functions/) below.

  * barn – the number of bars that indicator analyzes.
  * Length – the number of bars that compose impulse wave (the wave's length).

These two parameters are perhaps the most important as they determine
the indicator’s sensitivity.

Next, there are two parameters that define the exterior of the indicator
elements and sound alerts of the indicator:

 ![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][26]

In the Colors tab, you can change the color of the line that shows the
swings and the reactions.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][27]

In the Visualization tab, you can enable or disable the indicator’s
display in the data window. Besides, you can select timeframes, for
which the indicator will be displayed. Dinapoli Target Malay will
equally suit all timeframes.

### Trading with Dinapoli Target Malay

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][28]

Now, let us look at the indicator with default settings in the chart.
Horizontal lines mark Fibonacci levels, which I wrote about in the
theoretical section devoted to the DiNapoli levels. The thin diagonal
turquoise line marks swings and reactions (corrections).

The red line marks the level of a stop loss suggested by the indicator
in the case of a less risky trading strategy.

The beige line marks the entry level.

Next, there are DiNapoli levels that mark presumed targets.

The main flaw of this indicator is that it is lagging. It is clear from
the above chart that the price chart goes much lower than the suggested
targets, but, as the reaction goes on, there are not yet defined
relevant levels to trade.

The advantage of his indicator is that it is simple and user-friendly. A
small number of settings and [functions](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/basic-functions/) will be good for a newbie or for
a user, who uses the Dinapoli Target Malay mt4 indicator for additional
confirmation of trading entries or exits.

### Dinapoli targets metatrader 4 indicator

Forex Dinapoli targets metatrader 4 indicator is very similar to the
previous one, I described above, both in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of settings and the
appearance. The difference is that the DiNapoli levels are not the thick
solid line but a dotted line, and the visualization of reactions and
swing has been removed from the chart.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][29]

There are two identical [BTCUSD][1] charts above, for you to compare.
Dinapoli targets metatrader 4 is on the left. Dinapoli Target Malay,
which I described first, is on the right. As you see, there are no
significant differences between them, except for simplified
visualization.

### How to install Dinapoli targets metatrader 4 indicator?

Download the indicator archive [here][30] and extract the download file.
Next, go through the same algorithm as I described for the previous
indicator above. Do not forget to restart your MetaTrader terminal, to
see the new tool in the list of indicators.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][31]

By the way, you can paste the indicator via the Navigator menu, where,
in the indicators’ list, you open the Indicators folder and, next, the
Examples sub-folder. If everything has been done right, the downloaded
indicator will be on this list.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][32]

### Custom Dinapoli targets metatrader 4 indicator

Next, when you have opened the chart window, open the indicator’s
settings by double-clicking the left mouse button on the indicator’s
icon. It will open the custom window. If you click on the OK button, you
will run the indicator with the default settings. There is nothing new
in the Common and Visualization tabs.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][33]

In the Inputs tab, there are even fewer parameters. Unlike the Dinapoli
Target Malay, the Dinapoli targets metatrader 4 indicator offers two
custom only two parameters affecting the indicator sensitivity:

  * barn – the number of bars that indicator analyzes.
  * Length – the number of bars that compose impulse wave (the wave's length).

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][34]

The Colors tab should have been able to set the parameters of the line
marking the swings and reactions, like in the DinapoliTarget Malay
settings. However, this line is not displayed in the chart despite any
changes in the visualization parameters. I do not know if it was done
deliberately by the developers or it is a technical flaw.

### How to trade with Dinapoli targets metatrader 4 indicator?

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][35]

The above figure displays the [BTCUSD][1] chart with the Dinapoli
targets metatrader 4 indicator. I may have noticed that I applied an
unusual for me black-and-green theme. This is because the entry level is
white by default, and you cannot see this line against the white
background. Nonetheless, it is as easy to use this indicator as the
previous one. Simple settings and deliberate minimalism in visualization
suggest that Dinapoli targets metatrader 4 indicator should be used as a
supplementary tool together with other forex technical indicators. The
Dinapoli targets metatrader 4 (like the DinapoliTarget_Malay) suggests
the following trading algorithm. The white line marks the entry level.
To understand the direction of the trend, we analyze the location of the
levels relative to the entry point. If they are above the white line, we
enter long trades, if the level is below, we enter short trades.
Therefore, the red dotted lines, like in the previous example, marks the
suggested level for a stop loss. But I would set a buffer of a few pips
from this level. The targets are set according to your trading strategy,
or you can take the profit in parts at each of the levels marked with
the green, yellow, and purple dotted lines. There are relatively few
false signals.

### Price Sound TS Dinapoli indicator

The Forex indicator Price Sound TS Dinapoli is an improved modification
of the DinapoliTarget_Malay. It has more [functions](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/basic-functions/) in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of
visualization and sound notifications.

### How to install Price Sound TS Dinapoli?

Step 1. Download the archive via [this link][36] and unpack the file.

Step 2. Go through the algorithm described in the section devoted to
Dinapoli Target Malay. Copy and paste the files Price Sound TS
Dinapoli.ex4 and Price Sound TS Dinapoli.mq4 into the Indicators folder
and restart the MetaTrader platform.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][37]

After the rest, open the Insert tab and select the Indicators folder.
Next, go to the Custom tab and click on the Price Sound TS Dinapoli.

### Custom Price Sound TS Dinapoli

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][38]

There will open the [custom indicator](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/custom-indicator/) window. If right away click on OK,
you will launch the indicator with the default settings. Like with the
previous DiNapoli indicators, you can adjust the permissions for the
indicator in the Common tab, the visualization in the data window and
the timeframes used can be changed in the Visualization tab. The
DiNapoli levels can be used in any timeframes.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][39]

The main settings can be changed in the Inputs tab. The Price Sound TS
Dinapoli has quite many settings affecting mainly the visual component,
compared to the previous modifications of the DiNapoli levels
indicators.

The full list of the settings that you can change is below:

  * Barn – the number of bars that the indicator analyzes;
  * Length – the number of bars that compose the impulse wave (the wave's length);
  * Al – enables and disables sound alerts;
  * targets_Malay – enables and disables the visual display of targets;
  * PriceSound_on - enables and disables PriceSound on mode;
  * Sound_Play – switches the sound on and off;
  * Ind_levels - enables and disables the indication of the Fibonacci extensions level;
  * Ind_Bar – number of bars of the shift for the pips indication;
  * DistPips – the distance from the image of the pips number to the corresponding trend line;
  * FexpansColor_levels – the color of the Fibonacci levels;
  * Name_Fexpans – the name of the Fibonacci levels.

Parameters of the first trendline:

  * UniqueName1 – name;
  * LineColor1 – color;
  * LineWidth1 – width;
  * Sound1 – the name of the sound file;

You set the parameters of the second, third, and fourth trendlines in
the same way. You only change the number of the variable. For example,
the name of the second trendline will be UniqueName2, its color–
LineColor2, and the width of the second trendline is specified in the
LineWidth2 box.

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][40]

Unlike the Dinapoli targets metatrader 4, the Price Sound TS Dinapoli
allows you to adjust the color, thickness, and visualization style of
the line that shows swings and reactions. All the specified parameters
will be applied to the visual components in the chart.

### How to trade with Price Sound TS Dinapoli?

![LiteForex: Trading DiNapoli levels: Price Sound TS Dinapoli
indicator][41]

The above figure displays the Price Sound TS Dinapoli indicator with the
default settings. The red diagonal lines marks swings and reactions.
Horizontal lines are the Fibonacci levels. The labels corresponding to
each level are displayed above the levels. The big numbers below
indicate the distance of each level to the current price in pips. A big
advantage of the Price Sound TS Dinapoli levels indicator is the
advanced visualization settings and additional sound alerts when each of
the key levels is reached. The information is arranged on the screen
more compactly, it doesn’t overload the chart. The text marks on the
levels will make it easy for a beginner to navigate. Another specific
feature of the Price Sound TS Dinapoli is a super-extended target point,
SXOP (super expanded objective point), which corresponds to the
Fibonacci level of 268.1%. In the earlier DiNapoli levels indicators,
this level wasn’t highlighted.

That is all I wanted to write about the DiNapoli levels trading
indicators. After you read this article, I recommend you to apply all
the theory you learned to practice and test the DiNapoli levels trading
strategies and indicators on the trading assets you prefer. You can do
it right here, on the [LiteForex][42] [website](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/website-for-forex-trading/). The LiteForex broker uses
MT4 and MT5 trading terminals, for which you can free download all the
DiNapoli indicators I covered in this article. But, for a better
understanding of the DiNapoli levels trading technique, I highly
recommend starting the practice with a simple Fibonacci grid.

* * *

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][43]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][44] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

##

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![Trading DiNapoli levels][45]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=ba7d9ec8a1102f584d0878818a09755f
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=adfa572330576883fe41ae569a0b1f5e
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=3291f531d32bf8c5fb17efea15ab9705
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=crypto
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=8012e478b15b5ab4e918af7aac183e91
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=c119b4e014b91935eb682f2543e7d685
   8. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD&returnUrl=true
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=657c5332c71fa941ab3c9a513863ee95
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/BTCUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=7c56fdb3ae3b301aa7de8c9eec1d14af
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/BTCUSD_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=a56d6b4d75012079c5feeaed2ab15df0
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/BTCUSD_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=005af473dc31bce56b95dae9a8d9b6d7
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/BTCUSD_hypov_10.jpg?w=30&s=819ee279a7876a7c6fb2e1174ee154a2
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/BTCUSD_hypov_11.jpg?w=30&s=85c104cdee07296d2032de572209be7d
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/BTCUSD_hypov_12.jpg?w=30&s=b0622c4a805743df5559cf9701cd4262
   16. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/BTCUSD_hypov_13.jpg?w=30&s=74be8b573de4868c5a07e8e5bfbca642
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/BTCUSD_hypov_14.jpg?w=30&s=a1e1167034197f8af9c97ac723ef66d2
   18. www.mql5.com/ru/code/8029
   19. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/MT4_hypov_15.jpg?w=30&s=682586a4a20118cdbcec52bb2b0f5288
   20. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/MQL4_hypov_16.jpg?w=30&s=cfbab0627a11cadbc456c214de7cf83d
   21. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/Indicators_hypov_17.jpg?w=30&s=7b240c81a1e6c26f9e6d85f5e6502cc4
   22. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/Indicators_hypov_18.jpg?w=30&s=00b051c1ae04735a2fff70a5ca81aaf8
   23. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/DinapoliTarget_Malay_hypov_19.jpg?w=30&s=3961cf1e32b210cc0d24625b11f2b4a9
   24. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/DinapoliTarget_Malay_hypov_20.jpg?w=30&s=59a6befb7f62d41115c942e44798ec6b
   25. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/DinapoliTarget_Malay_hypov_21.jpg?w=30&s=ca86cd69012f878b5035acb7983cabe2
   26. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/DinapoliTarget_Malay_hypov_22.jpg?w=30&s=0a7b0782946690a27402169a0eaeb0a4
   27. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/DinapoliTarget_Malay_hypov_23.jpg?w=30&s=100f3d416a7e4dd14c8a7f0c34012d64
   28. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/DinapoliTarget_Malay__hypov_24.jpg?w=30&s=5291f0df410f994af4c4dbed4c0b72b4
   29. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/DinapoliTarget_Malay__hypov_25.jpg?w=30&s=919c4bd5e055b58af4ef933bc2b0343c
   30. drive.google.com/file/d/1fIoiTofb1VBXnRNmLlTdJfJyjR-_asny/view?usp=sharing
   31. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/Dinapoli_targets_metatrader_4_indicator_hypov_26.jpg?w=30&s=60330023027b5da4838f81ba4bfe8d2b
   32. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/Dinapoli_targets_metatrader_4_indicator_hypov_27.jpg?w=30&s=e9951c74e9240c9a24ad934ee938079f
   33. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/Dinapoli_targets_metatrader_4_indicator_hypov_28.jpg?w=30&s=0e9ead50d69e7bc4811c17af3baaf14d
   34. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/Dinapoli_targets_metatrader_4_indicator_hypov_29.jpg?w=30&s=3b1978334dcaf10a3ded9655859af0c0
   35. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/Dinapoli_targets_metatrader_4_indicator_hypov_30.jpg?w=30&s=20d8c90d7ff90fa9cf25cea852ac17b1
   36. www.mql5.com/ru/code/10345
   37. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/Price_Sound_TS_Dinapoli_hypov_31.jpg?w=30&s=d3c8531875fa1a652f5cbc344c00de24
   38. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/Price_Sound_TS_Dinapoli_hypov_32.jpg?w=30&s=5bb59c578b20f9173fdf51b7c1837762
   39. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/Price_Sound_TS_Dinapoli_hypov_33.jpg?w=30&s=37a87eedcf7fa8984de14ca186f5dba3
   40. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/Price_Sound_TS_Dinapoli_hypov_34.jpg?w=30&s=8656568dd97dbcb17277ac689fe7e66c
   41. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/Price_Sound_TS_Dinapoli_hypov_35.jpg?w=30&s=0fade3089f60b15df99ea892ea91bc04
   42. my.liteforex.com/trading
   43. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=trading-dinapoli-levels&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   44. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=trading-dinapoli-levels&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   45. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.20/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=f85ce64b743c9651b6066458beceffaf