+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-07"
description = "USDJPY forecast for 07.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "USDJPY forecast for 07.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 7, 2020

July 7, 2020

Yen got back its favorite toyDmitri Demidenko

## Japanese Yen forecast for today

### The Japanese yen is a safe haven asset again

How to make someone happy? You can take something valuable, which was
taken for granted earlier, and give it back later. Something like this
happened to the yen. The JPY used to be the major Forex safe haven for a
long time, and it was taken for granted. However, after the Fed lowered
the interest rates to a level around zero, the US dollar became a more
demanded safe-haven. This summer, the yen has again turned into a safe
haven. As a result, the [USD/JPY][1] is steadily trading in the
consolidation range of 106-110. Not only exporters and importers benefit
from the yen stable rates, but also pension funds that do not need to
worry about hedging against currency risks associated with investing in
foreign assets.

Over the past few years, pension funds, including the GPIF, have
wondered [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) preserve and increase the funds they manage. They had to
invest in foreign assets amid Japan’s aging population and low bond
rates. Now, the outlook for the Japanese economy is more positive, and
the BoJ has weakened its buying support, so the spread between 30-year
and 10-year bond yields widens. The 30-yer yields are rising, which
supports demand growth. The most recent auction drew a bid-to-cover
ratio up by 3.92 times, the highest since July 2019.

### Dynamics of Japan’s yield curve

![LiteForex: USDJPY forecast for 07.07.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The trends in the bond markets of the USA and Japan are important to
anti _cipate the_ dollar-yen future prices _._ In the USA, despite a
difficult epidemiological situation, there is still hope for a quick GDP
rebound, which draws up 10-year Treasury yields. Besides, the BoJ holds
Japan’s bond yields at a fixed level, which increases the U.S.-Japan
bond yield spread and pushes the [USD/JPY][1] up to the top of the
consolidation range of 106-110, which I defined in April. On the other
hand, the gloomy forecasts that the reopening of the US economy will
result in the surge of the coronavirus cases and another lockdown, press
the 10-year Treasury yields down, giving an advantage to the
[USD/JPY][1] bears. As a result, the yen is growing when the U.S. GDP
outlook becomes more negative, that is it behaves as a safe haven.

### Dynamics of USD/JPY and U.S.-Japan 10-year yield spread

![LiteForex: USDJPY forecast for 07.07.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

As already wrote, exporters, importers, and pension funds benefit from
the return of the yen’s safe-haven status. The [UDS/JPY][1] traders,
however, are not that excited. The correlation of the currency pair and
the US stock indexes has become much weaker. Therefore, I recommend
trading the idea of the change in the global risk appetite using the
[EUR/JPY][4] and the [AUD/JPY][5]. The EURJPY breaks out the resistances
at 122, and the AUDJPY is up above 75.1-75.2, optimists can well buy the
euro and the Australian dollar against the Japanese yen amid the
expectations of a soon victory over COVID-19 and the global economic
recovery that should follow.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of USDJPY in real time mode

![Yen got back its favorite toy][8]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDJPY&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/japan-bonds-07-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=e1dcb129d32b3a0bafc767425d151973
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/usdjpy-bonds-07-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=8a3032835695cac58f9aad84f1342735
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURJPY&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDJPY&returnUrl=true
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=yen-got-back-its-favorite-toy&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=yen-got-back-its-favorite-toy&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-usdjpy-07-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=d4bf2383d78f4d01521e11b4f52b7817