+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-02"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (2 February 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (2 February 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-02

2021-02-02

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 02.02.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Yesterday and today, at the oil morning session, the medium-term uptrend
continues. As a result, Target Zone 4 was reached [54.72 - 54.21].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Yesterday and today, at the oil morning session, the medium-term uptrend
continues. As a result, Target Zone 4 was reached [54.72 - 54.21]. If
this resistance level is broken out, expect the price to rise to Target
Zone 5 [59.82 - 59.31].

The short-term trend is up. Today traders updated January 13's high.
Thus, the trend key support has worked out [51.66 - 51.43]. The next
growth target is Target Zone 3 [55.00 - 54.53].

It is profitable to enter new long trades at strong support zones:
Additional Zone [53.09 - 52.98] and Intermediary Zone [51.96 - 51.73]. A
price correction to these levels and the formation of a buy pattern is
required.

According to the methodology and technical trading environment, sales
are not relevant at the moment.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [53.09 - 52.98].
TakeProfit: 54.20, Target Zone 3 [55.00 - 54.53]. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

The medium-term chart shows that gold is trading in the medium-term
uptrend. This is indicated by the breakout of the Target Zone [1890 -
1879] and the inability of traders to break out the support of 1818.
Thus, it is profitable to look for a buy pattern with the target at the
January's high + Target Zone 2 [2005 - 1994].

The short-term chart shows the short-term uptrend. The target of the
trend is Target Zone [1912 - 1902].

The nearest support for today is Additional Zone [1850 - 1848]. The
formation of a pattern is required to make purchases in this zone.

The trend key support is located in the zone of [1825 - 1820]. The buy
trend will continue until this area is broken out.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Hold up medium-term purchases entered in the zone of [1859.2 - 1816.9]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [2005.8 - 1994.3]. StopLoss: 1830.

  2. Enter short-term buy trades according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1850 - 1848]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1912 - 1902]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro price has declined since the opening of this trading week. The
medium-term trend is down. Now the bears are trying to break out support
zone 1.2062 - 1.2053 again. If successful, the next target of the price
fall will be Target Zone 2 [1.1981 - 1.1962].

The short-term timeframe shows a breakout of the Intermediary Zone
[1.2109 - 1.2101] and a reversal of the short-term trend down. Now the
target for sales is Target Zone [1.2029 - 1.2013].

Key resistances for today, from which it is profitable to look for a
pattern to sell the euro, are Additional Zone [1.2100 - 1.2096] and
Intermediary Zone [1.2144 - 1.2136].

Buy euro if the bulls break out the Additional Zone and consolidate
above.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.2100 - 1.2096]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.2029 - 1.2013]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. If the price breaks out Additional Zone [1.2100 - 1.2096] - buy. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1.2144 - 1.2136]. StopLoss: below the nearest local low.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-02022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-02022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus