+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-24"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (24 September 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (24 September 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-24

2020-09-24

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 24.09.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The gold price has reached another downside target, Gold Zone [1852.9 -
1848.2]. If this zone is broken out, the price will continue falling to
the target in Target Zone 2 [1806.4 – 1797.1]. The EURUSD rate continues
declining. The sell target is at Target Zone 2 [1.1611 — 1.1591].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil traders came across the resistance level at Target Zone 5 [41.67 –
40.92]. The sellers are now reacting to the zone test. Oil is likely to
go down to the trend key support again.

On the other hand, the middle-term oil trend is up. The 1-2-3 buy
pattern worked out last week. The price is now being corrected opposite
the wave 2-3. We shall wait and see what will be next. The situation in
the medium-term oil price chart is not yet clear.

The short-term trend is up. Expect a buy pattern to enter purchases in
Intermediary Zone [38.72 – 38.45]. The pattern will emerge when the
price breaks out yesterday’s high and consolidate above. Or there could
be another buy pattern if there is a false breakout of the low hit on
Monday.

It will be relevant to sell when the price breaks out Intermediary Zone
and the US session closes the price below the zone. If so, we shall
enter sell trades with the target at the lower Target Zone [35.97 —
35.42].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [38.72 - 38.45].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [42.85 - 42.23]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

The medium-term gold trend has turned down, according to the margin
zones methodology. The second US session closed the price below Target
Zone 2 [1829.4 - 1820.1].

The previous sell targets at the support levels of 1902.9 and 1862.3
have been reached.

The short-term trend is down. The price reached another target at Gold
Zone [1852.9 – 1848.2] yesterday. If the price breaks out the zone, it
will continue falling to the target at Target Zone 2 [1806.4 – 1797.1].

I recommend entering new sell trades in the resistance zones of
Additional Zone [1874.5 - 1872.2] и Intermediary Zone [1900.1 – 1895.4]
according to the patterns. The target is now at a [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) low.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1874.5 - 1872.2]. TakeProfit: Gold Zone [1852.9 - 1848.2]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1900.1 - 1895.4]. TakeProfit: Gold Zone [1852.9 - 1848.2]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD rate continues to fall. The target is to reach Target Zone 2
[1.1611 – 1.1591]. I recommend entering medium-term sell trades on the
correction towards [1.1811 — 1.1752].

The EURUSD short-term trend is down. The price reached Target Zone
[1.1717 – 1.1697] yesterday. The target is now Gold Zone [1.1617 –
1.1607].

Enter new sell trades in the new resistance zones: Additional Zone
[1.1700 - 1.1694] and Intermediary Zone [1.1754 - 1.1744]. Expect a sell
pattern to enter a trade.

It will be relevant to consider purchases when the price breaks out the
AZ. In this case, it will be relevant to buy on the correction with a
target in IZ.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1700 - 1.1694]. TakeProfit: 1.1646, Gold Zone [1.1617 - 1.1607]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1754 - 1.1744]. TakeProfit: 1.1646, Gold Zone [1.1617 - 1.1607]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-24092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-24092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus