+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-24"
description = "Yuan price forecast for September 24 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Yuan price forecast for September 24 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-24

2020-09-24

Yuan is strengthening. Forecast for 24.09.2020Dmitri Demidenko

Taking into account the sizes of the US and China’s economies, it is
surprising that the renminbi plays a second role in Forex. I will
analyze how the pandemic influences the yuan demand and offer a
[USDCNH][1] trading plan.

## Monthly fundamental forecast for yuan

Divergence in economic expansion is one of the key drivers for the Forex
rates. It is like a car race. The GDP rate can be compared to car speed.
If a country’s GDP is growing faster than that of the major competitors,
the local currency is appreciating. However, the current recession has a
unique feature. Unlike most global economies, China is going ahead.
Other countries are trying to go back to the starting point after moving
in the opposite direction. Is the winner identified?

Effective management in the fight against the pandemic is to help China
get ahead of the US economy much earlier than anticipated. Bloomberg
expects Chinese GDP to expand by 2% in 2020, OECD – by 1.8%. The US GDP
is going to contract. The sizes of the two largest world’s economies are
already comparable, so, it is strange that the renminbi plays a second
role in Forex. According to the Bank for International Settlements, the
greenback’s share in the Forex conversion operations was 88% in 2019,
the renminbi accounts for 4.3%. The yen’s share was 17%, and the pound's
share was 13%. However, the Chinese economy is almost three times bigger
than the Japanese and it exceeds the UK economy by five times.

In 2020 the situation is different because of the pandemic. The HSBC
notes that yuan is now more important in the foreign exchange rates of
the G10 currencies. It is evident from both the rising correlation and
more active than previously Asian Forex trading.

### Correlation between yuan and G10 currencies



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg._

The [USDCNH][1] downtrend is supported by the growing demand for the
renminbi and the expansion of the Chinese GDP. The Fed uses a huge
monetary stimulus, and the PBOC doesn’t use any. Therefore, the gap
between the yields on the US and China’s government bonds is widening to
all-time highs. FTSE Russell intends to include Chinese securities in
the calculation of its own indices. Beijing has issued debt obligations
worth 9.62 trillion yuan since the beginning of the year, and the total
volume of planned sales in 2020 significantly exceeds the indicators of
2019. The capital inflow in the largest Asian economy will support the
[USDCNH][1] downtrend in the future.

### Yields on government bonds of the US and China



 _Source_ _: Trading Economics_

The growing demand of the overseas [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s for the Chinese assets
could lead to bubbles in stock and real estate markets, which is a cause
for PBoC concern. I do not think that the regulator’s attempts to put a
barrier on the way of the RMB strengthening using a lower-than-expected
fixing suggests the negative impact of the strong currency on foreign
trade. In August, China’s exports increased by 9.5%. According to
Capital Economics, China’s current account surplus in 2020 will reach 3%
of GDP, the highest level in a decade.

### Monthly [USDCNH][1] trading plan

I believe, the People’s Bank of China aims at smoothening the yuan
growth rather than setting it back. The [USDCNH][1] correction up is a
good chance to sell the pair. I recommend adding up to the [shorts
entered earlier][2] with a target of at least 6.7.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of USDCNH in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCNH&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/usdcnh-forecast-five-reasons-to-buy-yuan/
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=yuan-is-strengthening-forecast-for-24092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=yuan-is-strengthening-forecast-for-24092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus