+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-07"
description = "US dollar price forecast 7 July 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 7 July 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-07-07

2021-07-07

Dollar punishes initiative. Forecast as of 07.07.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The greenback strengthens during periods of uncertainty and lower risk
appetite. Germany’s economic data are disappointing. Should you sell the
[EURUSD][1]? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading
plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

Financial markets reflect changes in the economy, but sometimes they
amplify them. Differently put, they make negative situations seem worse
and positives ones – better. A typical example was their reaction to a
stronger drop in non manufacturing PMI in the United States than
Bloomberg experts had predicted. The disappointment sent down the [S&P
500][2] and 10-year Treasury yields. The 10-year yield drop has been the
longest over the past sixteen months, which is usually a sign of an
economic downturn.

A decline in the US services PMI to 60.1 in June, down from the record
high of 64 in May, is not a disaster. When demand slows down, and
companies cannot find employees to fill open vacancies, this is an
objective process. In addition, the PMI value is still well above the 50
mark, which indicates the continuation of the expansion. Another thing
is important. When speculative US Treasury shorts are near annual highs,
exiting them will cause yields to fall more rapidly than one might
expect. Even against the background of minor changes in the data. This
is the case when the financial markets exacerbate bad situations.

### Dynamics of US Non Manufacturing PMI



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

A drop in Treasury yields and stock indexes means lowering risk
appetite, supporting such safe-havens as the Japanese yen and US dollar.
The greenback always benefits from uncertainty. In this regard,
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s' doubts about the ability of the US economy to continue its
rapid growth, as well as uncertainty about the Fed's further actions,
naturally sent the [EURUSD][3] down. Simply put, the euro kept afloat
while the [S&P 500][2] was moving up, but the fall in the US stock
market set the euro bulls back.

### Dynamics of USD and Economic Policy Uncertainty Index

 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

I must note that the euro crash began during the European trading
session. Technically, the sell-off started because buyers failed to
break out the resistance at 1.188. Fundamentally, the reason was the
report on Germany factory orders. The indicator has slipped below zero
for the first time since the beginning of the year. It was 3.7% down
while Reuters experts had expected a rise by 1% M-o-M. This is the worst
drop since the first lockdown in 2020. Investors, who used to bet on the
German economy’s recovery, have been disappointed. Isn’t it a reason to
sell the [EURUSD][3]?

Furthermore, the euro bulls are set back ahead of the release of the
FOMC June meeting’s minutes. 13 out of 18 officials see the rate hike
before the end of 2023; 7 of them believe the rate will be raised in
2022. Investors expect that the tone will be more dovish than earlier,
which supports the dollar.

### Weekly [EURUSD][3] trading plan

The [EURUSD][3] should soon reach the target at 1.177 indicated in [late
June][4]. Traders entered shorts at [1.1915][5] feel good. Shorts seem
to be yielding profits.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-rules-the-market-forecast-as-of-29062021/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-nothing-lasts-longer-than-the-temporary-forecast-as-of-28062021/