+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-03"
description = "Forecast for yen price as of 3 May 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for yen price as of 3 May 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-05-03

2021-05-03

Central banks will checkmate the yen. Forecast as of 03.05.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

When a central bank holds state bond yields at the same level, it's
exclusively external factors that start impacting a national currency's
rate. [USDJPY][1] and [EURJPY][2] are brilliant examples. Let's discuss
that and make a trading plan.

## Quarterly fundamental forecast for yen

The difference between lawyers and other experts is that lawyers may be
100% sure they're right even if there's little or no reason to believe
that. The Fed is behaving like a lawyer. Again and again, it doesn't
want to notice numerous signs of the US economy's recovery and continues
asserting inflation's growth will be temporary. Markets continue to
believe the central bank, and that prevents treasury bond yields from
growing. However, the Fed isn't a one-person theatre. Dallas Federal
Reserve Bank President Robert Kaplan pushed upwards not only debt rates
but also [USDJPY][1] quotes after mentioning QE tapering in his hawkish
speech.

According to ING's estimations, US households' revenues exceeded pre-
pandemic values by $5 trillion, which explains the US economy's success.
Still, you can lead your horse to water, but you can't make it drink.
Consumers are likely to put most of that money in stocks, and that won't
be a surprise amidst the [S&P 500][3]'s 25th record closure in 2021. As
a result, the US GDP won't be able to rise as fast as expected. That
circumstance, along with the Fed's strategy of passive contemplation,
holds back treasuries yield growth.

In the end, US debt rates and [USDJPY][1] rates will depend on how fast
the US economy grows and the way the Fed reacts to the situation.
Whereas the Bank of Japan is accused of hidden reduction in QE, its
yield control [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) doesn't require as much money as before its
introduction in 2016. In March, its asset reserves were ¥22 trillion
more than a year ago, which can't compare to ¥82 trillion in August
2016. The BoJ is acting as a detached observer who knows that the yen
rate depends more on North American winds than on its actions.

### BoJ's asset purchases under the QE program

 _Source: Reuters._

 BofA Merrill Lynch thinks the global economy's recovery will make
central banks withdraw monetary support. In 2020, they bought assets
worth almost $9 trillion. In 2021 and 2022, that sum may reduce to $3.4
trillion and $400 billion, respectively. In such a scenario, bond yields
just have to grow. If not in the USA, then in Europe, where Bundesbank
President Jens Weidmann said the ECB had to get ready to tighten
monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) even if financing costs for governments rose.

### Quarterly trading plan for [USDJPY][1] and [EURJPY][2]

I think the global debt market's yield will inevitably grow on
withdrawing monetary stimuli and amid the global GDP's fast growth. So,
I still believe the yen is the main Forex outsider in 2021-2022. I
recommended buying the [USDJPY][1] above 108.2 in my [previous
article][4], and I think bulls' chances to stop the uptrend are high.
Thus, it's advisable to hold and increase long positions during slumps.
As for [EURJPY][2], I predicted its growth to 129-130 in my
[February][5] forecast. That target has already been reached. It's time
to upgrade it to 133.5-134.



## Price chart of USDJPY in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDJPY&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURJPY&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   4. lite.forex/blog/analysts-opinions/yen-mission-impossible-forecast-as-of-27042021/
   5. lite.forex/blog/analysts-opinions/yen-uses-old-ties-forecast-as-of-15022021/