+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-26"
description = "Forecast for S&P 500 price as of 26 October 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for S&P 500 price as of 26 October 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-26

2020-10-26

S&P 500 bets on Democrats. Analysis as of 26.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

Investors are sure about Joe Biden’s victory, but the US stock indexes’
fall on the eve of 3 November’s vote may signal an eventual surprise.
Let’s discuss that and make a trading plan for [the S&P 500][1].

## Weekly fundamental forecast for S&P 500

The US stock market has practically always closed in the green zone the
week before the presidential election in the past thirty years, growing
3.8% on average. The exception was the year 2016 when the [S&P 500][1]
fell on the eve of the vote, which turned out to be a real surprise as
the outsider Donald Trump celebrated the victory. What should we expect
of the stock index now? Will it correct and increase the risk of
repeating the 4-year-old scenario, or grow and convince us of the
Democrats’ victory once and for all?

The pandemic became the hardest blow to the White House’s current
tenant: Joe Biden’s rating soared amid March’s market collapse.
Investors have been frightened until recently that the Democrats’ tax
hike will worsen corporate reports and clip the [S&P 500][1]’s wings.
The expectations of a large monetary stimulus from the Democrats changed
that position later. The markets expect a favorable reflation
environment, which will not only raise demand for stocks but also lower
the US treasury real yield, one of the key factors in the global MSCI
Index’s rally.

### S&P 500 and Joe Biden’s rating

 __

_Source: Bloomberg._

### Global MSCI and treasury real yield

###

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Thus, the stock indexes’ march to the north depends not only on a fiscal
stimulus but also on the Fed’s willingness to limit the treasury yield
growth. In this regard, the growth of 10-year bond rates to their
highest level since June and Donald Trump’s growing ratings made the
[S&P 500][1] retreat. It’s worth mentioning that the yields were holding
to the level of 0.8% just for a few sessions. Investors don’t want to
play against the Fed, and according to Bloomberg, the [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) markets
bet that the index won’t rise further.

There are several factors that support the stock market: the Fed’s soft
monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), low borrowing costs, better-than-expected corporate
reports, a weakening dollar, and unexpectedly strong US economy.
However, a blue wave and Donald Trump’s unwillingness to question the
election results because of postal voting will reduce political risks
and global uncertainty. That will hit safe-haven assets, including the
dollar, and support the [S&P 500][1].

### USD index and global uncertainty index

 _Source: Nordea Markets_

The statistics on the US Q3 GDP may help understand whether the 30-year
behavior pattern of stock indexes will repeat itself or whether the [S&P
500][1] should be expected to fall like it was before the 2016 election.
The strong PMI stats indicate that the economy has grown immune to
COVID-19 and may return to pre-crisis levels in mid-2021 if an
additional stimulus is provided.

### Weekly trading plan for [S&P 500][1]

A breakout of resistance at 3,500-3,510 will be a signal to buy the [S&P
500][1] in the direction of 3,650 and 3,750. The targets may be realized
very fast against a backdrop of a blue wave, while Trump’s unexpected
victory will launch a corrective wave.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][2]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][3] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=sp-500-bets-on-democrats-analysis-as-of-26102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   3. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=sp-500-bets-on-democrats-analysis-as-of-26102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus