+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-26"
description = "Forecast for US dollar price as of 26 October 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for US dollar price as of 26 October 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-26

2020-10-26

Dollar is afraid of risk on steroids. Analysis as of 26.10.2020Dmitri
Demidenko

Forex follows the US stock indexes, but it can’t last long. This week is
going to be wild, and it will be hard to fish in troubled waters. Let’s
talk about possible scenarios and make a trading plan for [EURUSD][1].

## Weekly fundamental forecast for dollar

The pandemic revealed the drawbacks of the eurozone’s two-speed economy.
While Germany’s business activity grew, mainly due to the industrial
sector, the currency bloc’s composite Purchasing Managers Index dropped
to 4-month lows at 49.4. When that value is less than the key level of
50, the economy falls. Thus, the eurozone may face a double recession
against the backdrop of the second wave of COVID-19. That allows selling
[EURUSD][1] amid the US business activity’s continuous growth.
Unfortunately, the market is overwhelmed with quite different investment
ideas. At least for now.

### Business activity

 __

_Source: Wall Street Journal._

Bank of New York Mellon notes that the correlation between currencies
and the US stock indexes is significantly higher than in 2019. That
allows us to presume their increased sensitivity to risk appetite. The
bank interpreted that unusual occurrence as “risk on steroids”: the
markets are waiting for Joe Biden’s victory, the [S&P 500][2]’s rally,
and the greenback’s dive, which will affect dollar pairs and cross
rates.

The USD is under serious pressure, but the euro itself has some trumps.
There is too much spare cash in the eurozone’s bank system amid large
monetary stimuli. The index reached a record high level of €3.2 trillion
in October. As there’s too much spare money, it goes to the debt market:
demand for the European Commission’s first bonds was €233 billion while
the issuance volume was €17 billion. Since the ECB has already got a
large piece of the pie by means of its pandemic-driven bond-buying
program, the remaining part is fiercely contended for.

### Spare liquidity in European bank system

###

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Central banks are interested in buying bonds too: according to Deutsche
Bank’s research, their share in the volume of 10-year bond issuance was
40%, two times bigger than previous issuance values. Diversification of
gold and currency reserves in favor of the euro is one of the key
factors in the [EURUSD][1]’s consolidation.

The ECB will hardly decide to expand QE in the current circumstances at
the meeting on 29 October. It doesn’t need to hurry in spite of the
pandemic’s second wave, deflation, Brexit, and double recession risks.
The CPI’s fall below zero may be due to temporary factors, such as
Germany’s VAT cut. The program’s unused resources amount to $750
billion, whereas economic forecasts will be updated only in December.
There are plenty of arguments to continue to “idle on the roadside,” but
Christine Lagarde can still surprise us.

### Weekly trading plan for [ EURUSD][1]

If not for the ECB’s meeting and the fiscal stimulus story, we could buy
[EURUSD][1] at the breakout of resistance at 1.1865 amid expectations of
Joe Biden’s victory, then fix profits after 3 November and sell the pair
amid the divergence in the US’ and the eurozone’s economic growth.
However, other factors may interfere with that plan. The last week of
October promises to be wild.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-is-afraid-of-risk-on-steroids-analysis-as-of-26102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-is-afraid-of-risk-on-steroids-analysis-as-of-26102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus