+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-26"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (26 October 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (26 October 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-26

2020-10-26

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 26.10.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The euro has changed the medium-term trend to an upward one by breaking
out of Target Zone [1.1832 - 1.1812].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

On the oil chart of a large timeframe, the price is retreating from the
resistance - Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. The likely target of the
price decline is the lower flat level - Target Zone [37.34 - 36.72].
Consider shorting according to the pattern.

The short-term oil trend remains upward. This week there was a test of
the key support level of the trend [39.08 - 38.83]. Wait for a buy
pattern to form. Plan longs with the target at the upper Target Zone
[42.56 - 42.01].

To consider oil shorts, the Intermediary Zone has to be broken through
and consolidated below the zone during the American trading session. In
this case, the short-term trend will change to a downward one, and the
target will be at the lower Target Zone [36.53 - 36.02].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [39.08 - 38.83].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [42.56 - 42.01]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold is being traded in a medium-term downtrend, the goal of which is to
reach Target Zone 2 [1829.4 - 1820.1]. Wait for a pattern to open
shorts. The market has to break through the level [1890 - 1882] and
consolidate below to form a sell pattern.

The short-term trend for gold is upward. The target is the upper Target
Zone [1951.0 - 1941.7].

I recommended buying gold last week, but these longs did not bring the
expected result. At the end of the week, the price corrected to the area
of favourable prices [1902.7 - 1882.0].

However, the correction does not change the upward priority. This week,
continue to look for longs in order to work out the stop-loss and earn
more.

Sell gold only when the Intermediary Zone [1886.7 - 1882.0] is broken
through.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in the area [1902.7 - 1882.0]. TakeProfit:
Target Zone [1951.0 - 1941.7]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro has changed the medium-term trend to an upward one by breaking
out of Target Zone [1.1832 - 1.1812] and consolidating above. Now the
target for longs is Target Zone 2 [1.2032 - 1.2012]. The key support
level is at the levels [1.1648 - 1.1625].

Let's analyze the situation on the chart of a smaller timeframe. EURUSD
is being traded in a short-term uptrend with the target at Target Zone
[1.1943 - 1.1920].

Last week, traders tested Additional Zone [1.1822 - 1.1817]. They
couldn't break through the zone. Today I recommend looking for a buy
pattern in this area.

The key support level of the trend is located at the levels [1.1764 -
1.1753]. If the price corrects to this zone, wait for the reaction of
buyers and look for entries into long positions.

The bullish scenario will be cancelled if the American trading session
closes below 1.1753.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1822 - 1.1817]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1943 - 1.1920]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1764 - 1.1753]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1943 - 1.1920]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-22102020-2020-10-26&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-22102020-2020-10-26&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus