+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-09-23"
description = "US dollar price forecast 23 September 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 23 September 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-09-23

2021-09-23

Dollar is proactive. Forecast as of 23.09.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Investors expected the Fed to announce QE tapering in November and start
implementing this plan in December. However, the Fed should act faster.
How will it affect the [EURUSD][1]? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and
make up a trading plan.

## Quarterly US dollar fundamental forecast

The Fed has not announced its QE tapering, and half of FOMC officials
still expect the federal funds rate to remain unchanged until 2023, but
the central bank is not going to turn off the path it took in June. The
central bank should follow its plan of monetary normalization. And this
circumstance made EURUSD's reaction to the meeting of the Open Market
Committee quite predictable. As I noted in the previous article, one
should not be misled by the initial growth of the euro; it will still be
followed by the strengthening of the US dollar.

The Fed communicates so often and so well with financial markets that it
is very difficult to surprise [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s. And yet the central bank has
given s surprise. Jerome Powell noted that the reduction in the asset
purchases could begin as early as November, and this does not require a
stunning increase in September employment. Bloomberg experts predicted
that the start of the QE tapering would take place in December.
Moreover, given the connection between COVID-19 and employment, the
issue of launching the process of removing monetary stimulus looks
almost resolved. The decline in the number of coronavirus cases suggests
that the September US jobs report will be better than the August one.

### Dynamics of employment and number of COVID-19 cases in USA



 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

Jerome Powell signaled that QE would end by about mid-2022, which
suggests that the Fed will finish the program in eight months, evenly
cutting the volume of Treasury bonds purchases by $ 10 billion, mortgage
bonds - by $ 5 billion. In 2013-2014, it took ten months ... According
to the Fed chairman, the central bank will complete QE faster than the
previous one, as the economy has featured better progress now.

Although compared to June, only two FOMC officials were added to the
number of supporters of the first increase in the federal funds rate in
2022, and there were nine of them, the median for 2023 rose from 0.6% to
1%. The committee expects the interest rate will rise to 1.8% by the end
of 2024, which is equivalent to six monetary restrictions of 25 basis
points each.

### FOMC projections for federal funds rate

 __

_Source_ _: Financial Times_

Of course, everything can change shortly. A deadlock with a US debt
ceiling, a downturn in the Chinese real estate market, and an
accelerating spread of COVID-19 could force the Fed to postpone the
first rate hike to 2024. On the contrary, persisting and worsening
supply chain disruptions will make high inflation persistent and push
the central bank to tighten monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) more aggressively in 2022.

### Quarterly [EURUSD][2] trading plan

I want to be optimistic. I want to believe that the global economy will
soon recover, and the Fed will implement its plans. If so, the
[EURUSD][1] could reach a level of 1.14. However, the more realistic
targets for the bears are at 1.168, which the price is about to reach,
and 1.156. It is still relevant to sell the euro versus the US dollar.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/ru/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true