+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-27"
description = "Canadian Dollar price forecast 27 January 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Canadian Dollar price forecast 27 January 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-27

2021-01-27

Oil gets in Canadian Dollar's way. Forecast as of 27.01.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

The US dollar sellers decrease their activity in January against the
background of the high speed of the vaccination campaign in the US and
slow inoculation rates in other countries. The [USDCAD][1] bears were
also involved. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading
plan

## Fundamental Canadian Dollar forecast for six months

Sometimes it's better to be small. The Fed, the largest central bank in
the world, cannot even think about a possible QE rollback. Tiff Macklem,
the Governor of the Bank of Canada, said that if the Canadian economy
develops following the regulator's forecasts, it will not need such a
considerable quantitative easing as it is now (CA$4 billion a week).
When one central bank intends to stand on the sidelines, and the other
thinks about normalizing monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), the latter's currency should
strengthen. But the [USDCAD][1] prices are not going to grow.

According to the Bank of Canada, after a contraction in the first
quarter, the country's GDP will begin to expand during the rest of the
year actively. It is associated with the widespread introduction of
vaccines (previously, the regulator predicted that they would become
widely available by mid-2022, in January, this period shifted to the end
of 2021), liftings of lockdowns, and spending money received by
consumers as part of fiscal assistance packages. Bloomberg experts share
identical views.

### Canada GDP Forecast

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The IMF is not so optimistic. On the contrary, the organization that
raised estimates for global GDP lowered its forecast for Canadian
economy from + 5.2% to + 3.6% for 2021. Most likely, the IMF was
affected by a weak start at the beginning of the year, problems with
vaccinations, as well as the new US President's slogan "Buy American!".
According to Canadian officials, these factors can cause severe damage
to trade relations between the two countries.

As of January 24, 20.5 million people (5.2% of the population) were
vaccinated in the United States, 816.5 thousand (1.1%) in Canada. At the
same time, Pfizer intends to accelerate the supply of vaccines to the
US, and Joe Biden promises to inoculate 100 million Americans in the
first 100 days of being in power. On the contrary, Canada suffers from
problems with the Pfizer plant in Belgium, like the EU. The supply of
vaccines has slowed down and will resume in the required quantity only
by mid-February. The vaccine race directly affects Forex exchange rates.
It makes people forget for a while about monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), which still
depends on GDP growth, liftings of lockdowns, and the vaccination
campaign's speed.

It should be noted that [USDCAD][1] bears are hindered not only by
vaccination rates, but also by the slowed growth of a key component of
Canada's exports, oil.

### Dynamics of [USDCAD][1] and Brent

 _Source: Trading Economics._

If in October-December, [Brent][2] and [WTI][3] prices showed rapid
growth on expectations of a recovery in global demand and the firm
intention of OPEC+ to stabilize the market by reducing production, then
at the beginning of 2021, a lot has changed. The slow roll-out of
vaccines and the risks of a double recession in selected oil-consuming
countries have forced oil to consolidate.

### [USDCAD][1] trading plan for six months

In my opinion, the oil pullback will contribute to the correction of
[USDCAD][1] in the short-term investment horizon. In the future, the
downtrend will recover. I expect that in 3, 6, and 12 months the pair
will be near 1.265, 1.23, and 1.245 marks. For these six months, I would
suggest selling on growth.





## Price chart of USDCAD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCAD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=UKBrent&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USCrude&returnUrl=true