+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-10"
description = "Forecast for USD price for June 10, 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for USD price for June 10, 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-10

2021-06-10

Dollar on the redline. Forecast as of 10.06.2021Dmitri Demidenko

June 10 is one of those days when Forex is ruled by emotions and not by
logic. The US inflation publication and a press conference following the
ECB's meeting are scheduled for the same time. That intensifies the risk
of a volatility surge. How should we behave in this situation? Let’s
make a trading plan for the [EURUSD][1].

## Fundamental forecast for dollar for today

If the hill will not come to Mahomet, Mahomet will go to the hill. Tired
of waiting for their opponents' attack ahead of the US inflation
publication and the ECB's meeting, [EURUSD][1] bulls decided to take
action themselves. [Just as I expected,][2] they weren't strong enough
to overcome resistance at 1.222. Rushing in is a foolish idea -- the
euro/dollar quotes returned fast to their start position, and traders
are ready to act, anticipating a hot Thursday today.

According to Bloomberg's estimates, consumer prices will grow from 4.2%
to 4.7% in May, but that will hardly change the Fed's stand. The Central
bank still has a reason to think that a jump in inflation is temporary.
In theory, a big gap between the pre-pandemic and current employment
rates should result in stagnant wages as employers have a big choice. In
practice, it’s the other way round. Fearing the pandemic and financial
stimuli, the labor market is recovering slower than the economy, and
employers have to raise compensation. So, average wages grew faster than
expected in April and June.

### US average wages



 _Source: Bloomberg._

The current recession clearly shows the difference between theory and
practice and thus adds to market uncertainty. Bloomberg is checking
again the patterns of ex-Chair of the Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke that
say inflation will rise to 4.7-4.8% in the coming months and then slow
down. How will that really be? Also, that pattern doesn't exclude that
CPI will reach 5.5% and then drop to 5% by the end of the year.

### Projected inflation in the US



 _Source: Bloomberg._

So, no one knows what will happen with inflation and if its boost is
temporary. That complicates decision making on Forex. The situation gets
even more complicated as the US May inflation data will be released when
Christine Lagarde's press conference starts.

The ECB will probably increase the volume of bond purchases compared
with the beginning of the year and upgrade GDP, employment, and
inflation forecasts. Still, it may believe inflation won't reach the aim
of 2% in 2022-2023. The ECB's president will emphasize the temporary
nature of consumer prices growth and the need to preserve favorable
financing conditions. Thus, she will say scaling back the PEPP is too
early.

Using dove rhetoric, Lagarde will try to offset the most optimistic
forecasts and thus stop [EURUSD][1] bulls. Will she manage to do it?

### Trading plan for [EURUSD][1] for today

I think we should be ready for the [EURUSD][1]'s going on a roller
coaster. To open trades on breakouts is very dangerous in this
situation. It's best to let the market react and open positions at the
end of Lagarde's conference. The level of 1.218 will be a kind of
redline for the pair.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. lite.forex/blog/analysts-opinions/leave-the-euro-alone-forecast-as-of-08062021/