+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-10"
description = "Pound price forecast 10 June 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 10 June 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-10

2021-06-10

Post-Brexit trade war is coming. Forecast as of 10.06.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

It would seem that the sterling has all the necessary attributes to
compete with the Canadian dollar and other G10 currencies for the status
of the best performer of the year, but the unexpectedly emerging Brexit
topic forces the GBP back down. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and
make up a trading plan for [GBPUSD][1] and [EURGBP][2]

## Weekly pound fundamental forecast

The UK officially left the EU about six months ago, but still remaining
disagreements put pressure on the pound. London accuses Brussels of
overly thorough checks on the border with Northern Ireland, Brussels
threatens with sanctions and quotas for violating the [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of the
agreement concluded in December. A spectre is haunting Europe – the
spectre of a trade war between former allies. Eurasia Group estimates
the probability of its beginning in July at 30%.

Haste makes waste. The last-minute Brexit agreement was a real
breakthrough and the main driver for the sterling rally. However, due to
a flaw in the agreement, [GBPUSD][1] bulls and [EURGBP][2] bears began
to take profits, which leads to corrections. It would seem that after
the sad beginning of the year, the UK's economic relations with the EU
are beginning to recover: exports to the EU in March increased by 8.6%,
and imports by 4.5%. Are the bleak January results just an initial
shock, not a new reality? No way!

### Dynamics of UK trade with the EU

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The return of the Brexit topic was not at all included in the plans of
the UK economy, which is preparing for the full opening on June 21. The
rise in British consumer sentiment to its highest levels since April
2016 and a 10% increase in supermarket and retail chain sales compared
to May 2019 are the highest since the start of the pandemic. These facts
indicate that the Bank of England's 2021 GDP forecast of 7.25% is not
unattainable and may even be surpassed.

This fact, coupled with the statement of BoE chief economist, Andy
Haldane, that if high inflation becomes long-term, the slow withdrawal
of monetary stimulus would become dangerous, since it would have to
aggressively raise the interest rate, should have helped sterling. Alas,
GBP's old wounds began to bleed.

### Weekly [GBPUSD][1] and [EURGBP][2] trading plan

The EU threatens the UK with tariffs and quotas, and senior US officials
warn that a US-UK trade agreement is impossible if London violates the
[terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of the Brexit agreement while the pound bulls are taking profits.
Has politics become the determining factor in the market again? If so,
then plans for the [GBPUSD][1] growth to 1.433 and 1.45 will have to be
postponed indefinitely. The exit of the pair from the trading range of
1.409-1.422, in which it has been since the beginning of May, will cause
the development of a correction in the direction of 1.397-1.399 and
1.392. It makes sense to enter pound purchases against the US dollar in
case of GBP's return to the middle of the $1.409-1.422 trading corridor,
or in case of an unsuccessful breakout of the support at $ 1.409.

The further direction of the [EURGBP][2] price will be influenced not
only by the potential UK-EU trade war but also by Christine Lagarde's
ability to persuade the euro bulls do not act impulsive. If it doesn't
work, then [EURGBP][2] may soar to 0.8685.



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURGBP&returnUrl=true