+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-13"
description = "AUD/USD forecast for 13.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "AUD/USD forecast for 13.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 13, 2020

April 13, 2020

Will the Aussie get the better of bears?Dmitri Demidenko

## Speculators believe that the worst is yet to come for the AUD/USD

If the majority were always right, the Earth would still be going around
the Moon. Hedge funds believe that the AUD/USD rebound up from its
seventeen-year lows is just a correction. While the global economy is
stepping into the worst quarter since the Great Depression of the 1930s,
the worst time for the Australian dollar is yet to come. Speculators
have boosted their shorts on the Aussie three times since mid-March, and
they expect that a poor reading of Australia’s jobs report and weak PMI
data, as well as a slump in China’s output by 6%-10% in the January-
March period, will resume the [AUD/USD][1] downtrend. They seem to be
too pessimistic, don’t they?

Investors’ sentiment is developing over the years. The Australian dollar
has long been thought of as a risky asset, which should crash amid the
global GDP downturn and the first recession of Australia’s economy over
a few decades. In fact, the ultra-easy monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) of the RBA, the
key interest rate being down to its all-time low at 0.25%, and targeting
the yield on three-year bonds with the asset purchase program (QE) have
turned the Australian dollar into a funding currency. Before the
pandemic, the Aussie used to be a finding currency in carry trades
versus the Mexican peso and several Asian currencies. I don’t think that
the global recession will hit the AUD stronger than other world’s major
currencies.

 **Dynamics RBA interest rate and Australia’s government bond yields**

![LiteForex: AUD/USD forecast for 13.04.2020][2]

 _Source: Trading Economics_

Some may argue that the fact that S&P Global Ratings has revised
Australia's AAA credit rating outlook to "negative” can make to more
difficult for the Treasurer of Australia to raise funding for the
growing budget deficit. However, all countries are boosting their
national debts amid the coronavirus. Australia’s government can afford a
fiscal stimulus of 320 billion Australian dollars (about 16.4% of the
total output), as Australia's debt-to-GDP ratio is a little more than
40%. For example, the government debt is 85% of GDP in the euro area,
the US debt-to-GDP ratio is 106%, it is 238% in Japan.

Australia uses a record lifeline plan of 130 billion Australian dollars
to provide support for millions of workers. The unemployment rate is
expected to rise from the current 5.1% to 7% by October, which is much
better than in the USA, where the same indicator may rise from 4.4% to
14% by July.

 **Dynamics of Australia’s unemployment**

![LiteForex: AUD/USD forecast for 13.04.2020][3]

 _Source: Trading Economics_

So, Australia’s economy won’t be the weakest, and the quick rebound of
China's economy in the second quarter will allow the bulls to continue
the Aussie’s rally. Furthermore, if Australia’s jobs data are weak in
March, and the report on China's GDP is also weak for the first quarter,
it makes sense to open the [AUD/USD][1] long position with targets at
0.675 and 0.69, these longs should work out within the next 3-6 months.
It is reasonable to hold up the long positions entered in the zone of
0.59-0.62 [in late March][4].

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

![Will the Aussie get the better of bears?][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true&language_save=1
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/cash-rate-rba-13-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=633280f0c851b27f3734ad1218eb92f8
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/australia-labor-market-13-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=82484767d0d25d7e1e3d07369957e20c
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/aussie-meets-qe/
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=will-the-aussie-get-the-better-of-bears&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=will-the-aussie-get-the-better-of-bears&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-audusd-13-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=dc9b988b3fcf9cf4cfc5690d2fa1d73a