+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-28"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 28, 2020

July 28, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.07.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

The middle-term trend on oil stays upward. At the moment, the price is
trading in the area of a resistance zone [41.67 - 40.92]. Bulls are
unable to break through this level, hence the development of correction
is possible. If you see a reversal pattern, sell oil in correction down
to the key support zone [35.54 - 34.86].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.07.2020][1]

The short-term trend is upward. Traders are trying to break through TZ
5, unsuccessfully as for now. This week, the price corrected to the area
of Additional Zone [40.64 - 40.47]. Yesterday, the buyers showed that AZ
is indeed a support level: the price went up a little after the test of
that zone. Nevertheless, there is no pattern for longs.

Due to that, there is an alternative scenario to work with and that is
selling oil. Wait for a breakout of AZ and consolidation below. After
that look for shorts at a retest of the broken-through zone with the
target in the area of the key support zone of the short-term uptrend.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.07.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Buy according to the pattern from Additional Zone [40.64 - 40.47]. TakeProfit: 42.30. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. In case of breakout of Additional Zone [40.64 - 40.47] - short it. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [38.94 - 38.60]. StopLoss: above the next local high.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

This week, traders have already tried to break through a strong
resistance - Target Zone 8 [1937.2 - 1931.2] as part of a middle-term
uptrend. Nevertheless, there hasn't been one closing above the American
session, hence it is not a level breakout.

A correction with the target in Target Zone [1899.1 - 1890.9] may start
now. After the test of the zone look for new longs according to the
pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.07.2020][4]

As part of a local uptrend, Target Zone 3 has been reached, today it was
broken through and the price reached the next target - Gold Zone 3
[1980.8 - 1976.7]. After that, there was a massive correction, as part
of which the price got to the area of the key support level of the trend
[1940.1 - 1936.0].

Today, look at the reaction of buyers in the area of the key support
level. For new longs, you have to see a pattern, for example, "false
breakout".

For shorts, there should be a closing of American session below the
Intermediary Zone, or its obvious breakout during the European session.
In that case, look for shorts either at the market price or at a retest
of the broken-through zone.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.07.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Buy according to the pattern from Intermediary Zone [1940.1 - 1936.0]. TakeProfit: 1980.8. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. In case of breakout of Intermediary Zone [1940.1 - 1936.0] - sell. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1899.1 - 1890.9]. StopLoss: above the next local high.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

Yesterday, the euro buyers tried to break through the Target Zone 3
[1.1732 - 1.1714] but could not. Let's see if they can do it today. In
case of success, the new target will be Target Zone 4 [1.1914 - 1.1896].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.07.2020][7]

The short-term trend for the euro stays upward. Yesterday, the buyers
reached Target Zone 3 [1.1749 - 1.1731]. They couldn't break through it.

At the moment, the price is trading in correction and testing Additional
Zone [1.1736 - 1.1731]. Look for longs from this support level according
to the pattern with the target in yesterday's maximum.

If the AZ is broken through, the price will go to the area of
Intermediary Zone [1.1690 - 1.1681]. After it reaches the area, I
recommend looking for longs according to the pattern with the same
target.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.07.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Buy according to the pattern from Additional Zone [1.1736 - 1.1731]. TakeProfit: 1.1780. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern from Intermediary Zone [1.1690 - 1.1681]. TakeProfit: 1.1780. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.07.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_280720_1.png?w=30&s=b9cb008bf6a2456d8df881126cd71fd9
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_280720_2.png?w=30&s=2f8e69cb31daf7a64a6201996f8f81dd
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_280720_1.png?w=30&s=1c0a407ca64cfa60e76cd1a5d0b4e78b
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_280720_2.png?w=30&s=76279811fe988cd9cba11d813fc6edf3
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_280720_1.png?w=30&s=54141ebee0d8950f53f308fa7198ff50
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_280720_2.png?w=30&s=89f6b43b7dc1a037cd4d63f75e888472
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-28072020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-28072020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_142.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=ac23335ef0ba3a96babb530c43af167a