+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-28"
description = "Forecast for EURUSD for 28 July 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for EURUSD for 28 July 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 28, 2020

July 28, 2020

Forecast for EUR/USD: Will dollar correct?Dmitri Demidenko

##  **Fundamental forecast for dollar for today**

### EUR/USD bears think a major part of negative information is factored
in the quotes

The States’ inability to put an end to the pandemic may lead to the
USD’s worst dynamics in the past 9 years. Not only gold has grown
against the greenback in July, reaching a new record value. Almost
everything has grown against the greenback. An increasing number of new
Covid cases lets us think that controlling the virus in the USA is
harder than in other countries. It cuts the efficiency of the US
economy.

The main factors in the USD’s weakness are a bad epidemiological
situation, China’s probable sales of US Treasuries, presidential
election uncertainty, and fears that the Fed will continue monetary
expansion and drop the federal funds rate below zero. It will hardly
happen at FOMC’s meeting on 28-29 July, but obviously, the situation has
changed for the worst since the last meeting.

Back in June, the number of Covid cases got stable. It was falling in
New York and New Jersey, while Texas, Florida and California didn’t face
the virus terror that they are in now. Still, the Fed’s forecast had
already been pessimistic. Jerome Powell and his peers didn’t see any
signs of the V-shape recovery the White House had been talking about.
They rather appealed for fiscal stimulus and said the Central bank
wasn’t able to deal alone with the pandemic. the Boston Fed President
Eric Rosengren said in his latest interviews that he expected the same
inflationary decline as in Europe, but the States weren’t as successful.
American macro-indicators are still far from pre-crisis levels while the
German Ifo Business Climate Index has exceeded them already.

### Dynamics of German business climate indexes

### ![LiteForex: Forecast for EURUSD for 28 July 2020][1]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The longer the epidemic lasts, the harder it will be for some sectors to
recover. Millions of Americans will become jobless, businesses will go
bankrupt and the banking system will be under a great stress. The
economy is becoming less efficient, compared with competitors. This
cannot but affect the currency rate.  In the week ended 22 July, net USD
shorts reached the highest level against 8 major currencies since April
2018.

The uncertainty around fiscal stimulus puts pressure on the greenback
too. The Republicans proposed to increase the relief package by $1
trillion, cutting weekly unemployment benefits from $600 to $200. They
believe the US has one foot in the pandemic and one foot in the
recovery.

Still, no trend can do without correction. According to Rabobank,
[EUR/USD][2] quotes have already considered both the probable worsening
of US macro-statistics and the Fed’s downbeat expectations for GDP. The
greenback may be given preference as a safe haven currency at any time,
especially when US stock indexes aren’t willing to continue a rally. And
that’s good for bulls! Retracements to $1.1655 and $1.158 will allow
them to buy the euro cheaper.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Forecast for EUR/USD: Will dollar correct?][5]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/german-ifo-28-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=c60ed5a9f35fc9aa275bfc9c66beff91
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forecast-for-eurusd-will-dollar-correct&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forecast-for-eurusd-will-dollar-correct&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-28-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=8746eadd2127b0f9867e864824554327