+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-02"
description = "Japanese Yen price forecast 2 March 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Japanese Yen price forecast 2 March 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-02

2021-03-02

Central banks reached an impasse. Forecast as of 02.03.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

The rapid recovery of the US economy allows the Fed to ease up a bit.
Alas, other countries' economies are not recovering so quickly, which
forces their central banks to resist the rise in bond yields. How does
this affect [USDJPY][1] and [EURJPY][2]? Let us discuss the Forex
outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Monthly Japanese Yen fundamental forecast

Central banks are usually happy to follow the Fed's lead. This was the
case in 2015-2017 when the US central bank raised the federal funds
rate, and other central banks were pleased with the weakening of
national currencies against the US dollar. This was the case in March
2020, when the Fed launched an unprecedented monetary stimulus program,
and other central banks followed in its footsteps. In early 2021, it
seemed to many that the path taken by Jerome Powell and his team was the
path to nowhere.

Is the Fed's strategy correct? Should other central banks ignore the
growth in bond yields, explaining it with hopes for a fiscal stimulus
and a robust economic recovery? Most regulators do not agree. The
Reserve Bank of New Zealand officials, looking at the fastest monthly
growth in sovereign debt rates since 1994, said they were closely
watching for signs of financial market dysfunction, and they had an
opportunity to scale up the NZ$100 billion bond-buying program. The
Reserve Bank of Australia doesn't waste words and is increasing activity
in the domestic debt market. On February 26, its asset portfolio grew by
AU$3 billion, on March 1 - by AU$4 billion. These are the most serious
interventions since the start of QE in March 2020.

Others are not lagging behind. Representatives of the Governing Council
believe that the ECB can and should increase the scale of bond purchases
to clamp down on yield growth. At the same time, the Bloomberg insider
claims that the Bank of Japan will abandon the idea of ​​expanding the
target yield spread of 10-year securities from +/-0.2% to + /-0.3% to
show that it will not be led by the markets. BoJ's desire to control
debt market rates has made and continues to make the yen dependent on
events outside of Japan. Bond yield spreads point the way for
[USDJPY][1] and [EURJPY][2] prices.

### Dynamics of [USDJPY][1] and US-Japanese bond yield spread



 _Source: Investing._

### Dynamics of [EURJPY][2] and German-Japanese bond yield spread

 _Source: Investing._

I considered the yen to be the main outsider among the G10 currencies,
and I continue to do so. All because of the implementation of the idea
of the rapid growth of global GDP and massive sales of safe-haven
assets. At the current stage of development, the Fed and other central
banks' different views speak in favor of buying [USDJPY][1]. The Federal
Reserve can afford to passively contemplate what is happening against
the backdrop of US GDP's potential growth to 7.6% in 2021. Other
regulators, including the BoJ, are forced to restrain growth rates due
to the slower recovery of national economies.

### [USDJPY][1] and [EURJPY][2] trading plan for a month

The targets for [USDJPY][1] and [EURJPY][2] in the 107-108 and 129-130
areas, set back [in January][3], are practically met or fulfilled. If
Treasury yields continue to rise, the US dollar will strengthen to
¥109-110. As for the euro, the [EURJPY][2] pair is likely to start
consolidation in the 127.5-130 range if there are no signs that the
eurozone economy is recovering. And yet, I believe that there will be a
rapid growth of global GDP in 2021, so the recommendation remains the
same - buy on a price decline.



## Price chart of USDJPY in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDJPY&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURJPY&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/japanese-yen-from-favorites-to-outsiders-forecast-as-of-18012021/