+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-06"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 06.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 06.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 6, 2020

August 6, 2020

EUR/USD forecast: Dollar should survive before it thrivesDmitri
Demidenko

## Fundamental U.S. dollar forecast for today

### Investors do not believe in the U.S. economy and sell off the U.S.
dollar

When the U.S. economy looks like a bubble, the dollar can’t but fall.
Investors have not been confused by the biggest rise of the U.S.
manufacturing PMI since February 2019. The U.S. employment in the
private sector added 165,000 jobs in July, sharply missing expectations
of more than 1 million new jobs. The number of jobless claims, according
to the experts polled by the Wall Street Journal, should continue
rising. When people had money granted by the government, they spent it.
Now, they have run out of money. Democrats and Republicans can’t reach
an agreement on the extra financial aid package, and this is a big
problem.

### Dynamics of U.S. employment

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 06.08.2020][1]

 _Source: Wall Street Journal_

The $600 unemployment boost expired on July 31. It will result in a
sharp decline in household spending and a slowdown in the U.S. GDP
recovery. In the middle of summer, over 12 million people received
benefits, which allowed them to pay rent, utilities, auto, and other
loans. Now, financial aid has finished, and the debts continue growing.

The unemployment benefits, supporting consumer spending, is only the tip
of the iceberg. The US labor market is weak, which kills the hope for
the V-shaped GDP rebound. According to the poll of the National
Federation of Independent Business, about 20% of firms plan to lay off
workers after using the loans from the Paycheck Protection Program.
According to Cornell University, one in four workers, recruited back
through the program, received a notice that they could be fired again.

The grim outlook of the U.S. economy contrasts with the confidence in a
soon rebound of the euro-area GDP, which is signaled by the euro-area
PMI report, which is stronger than the flash data.

### Dynamics of euro-area PMIs

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 06.08.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

According to the Societe Generale, there is no doubt the dollar has made
a cyclical turn now and should continue falling amid the current Fed’s
monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) stance and the outlook for the U.S. growth over the next
few years. 33 of 62 experts surveyed by Reuters said the USD bear trend
would continue for at least another six months. 15 analysts, said it
would be less than six months. While 11 said it would be less than three
months, just three respondents said it was already over. The consensus
view suggests the [EUR/USD][3] will be trading at 1.18 in August 2021,
which is the highest in a year.

In my opinion, the market is too fast. It starts pricing the weak data
on the U.S. nonfarm payrolls in July. As a result, volatility risks are
growing. The euro could grow first, and, next, it could fall even
faster, as big traders should be exiting longs. However, we should see
the publication of the U.S. jobless claims data, which can push the
[EUR/USD][3] up above 1.192. I recommend holding the [long positions
opened at level 1.173][4] and preparing for exiting a part of trades.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![EUR/USD forecast: Dollar should survive before it thrives][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/nonfarm-payrolls-usa-06-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=2737c9231cd04aa9c271bac5d3411dac
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/euro-pmi-06-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=9b65d88ccbe12ecc57b3d9066c3f6d29
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/eurusd-forecast-poor-management-will-kill-dollar/
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-dollar-should-survive-before-it-thrives&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-dollar-should-survive-before-it-thrives&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-06-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=b4f1841d3755cc2a6503798e0370d6dc