+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-06"
description = "GBP/USD forecast for 06.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "GBP/USD forecast for 06.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 6, 2020

August 6, 2020

GBP/USD forecast: Pound lands experts in the soupDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental Pound forecast for today

### The market is too often wrong about the sterling

Brexit put the Bank of England in the shade. The central bank was even
criticized when Mark Carney and his colleagues lowered the interest
rates immediately after the referendum on the UK membership in the EU in
2016. The BoE had to again raise the rates amid the inflation growth.
The pandemic, however, gave the regulator the primary role again. The
recession makes the world’s central banks according to the same pattern.
They aggressively ease monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) and watch how the economy
responds, and, in case of necessity, boost the monetary stimulus. These
actions affect the exchange rates of local currencies. The GBP is no
exception.

At the BoE August meeting,  Andrew Bailey and his colleagues admitted
that the GDP drop was not as deep as it had been expected (-20% compared
to -25% in the previous forecast for the second quarter). However, the
GDP rate should return to the levels of 2019 not in the second half of
2021 but at the end of next year. The Bank of England is optimistic
about the UK labor market, expecting the rise in the unemployment rate
to 7.5% at the end of 2020, followed by a decline next year. The BoE
officials sound cautious rather than pessimistic. Markets expected a
more negative tone, that should hint at the interest rate cut or the
expansion of the asset purchase program.

### Market expectations of the changes in the BoE interest rates

![LiteForex: GBP/USD forecast for 06.08.2020][1]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

I must admit the market’s bets are too often wrong about the sterling
trends. So, I doubt the forecasts of 60 analysts polled by Reuters that
suggest the [GBP/USD][2] be at 1.29 in 3 months and 1.28 in 6 months,
followed by the return to a level of 1.31 in a year. Experts bet on the
fear of a no-deal Brexit and the weakness of the UK economy. In my
opinion, everything is relative.

The Bank of England expects the UK economy to recover at the end of
2021. However, Fed Vice Chairman Richard Clarida suggests the same term
for the US economic recovery. The UK is thought to be the most affected
by COVID-19 country in Europe. Analysts warn about the second wave of
the pandemic. But the epidemiological situation in the U.S. is not
better. Yes, the problems with the Brexit talks should weigh in the
sterling, but the dollar is also pressed down by political issues. There
is the presidential election upcoming in the USA. So, the USA does not
have any advantages over the UK and is sometimes behind Britain.
Therefore, I suggest the [GBP/USD][2] uptrend should be strong.

However, the pound bears still hope to win back. BofA Merrill Lynch says
the pound trend should soon turn down, as the GBP bears are supported
by….seasonal factor. In 4 out of 5 last months of the year, the sterling
was more often down than up. I don't think it is a strong reason. The US
weak jobs report for July may send the US stock indexes down and return
the dollar its safe-haven status. In this case, I would sell the
[GBP/JPY][3] with the target at 137 and use the [GBP/USD][2] correction
down to 1.302, 1.296, and 1.289 to enter long-term buy positions. The
[LiteForex convenient services][4] will perfectly suit to trade this
strategy.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

![GBP/USD forecast: Pound lands experts in the soup][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/repo-rate-boe-06-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=b55779a4ea82b9d34ef9ab3b6f0d3132
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/ru/trading/chart?symbol=GBPJPY&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?go-zone=ZASdmqixF1Cnq2et7jKB-Fl4wu_-MKOB&l
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gbpusd-forecast-pound-lands-experts-in-the-soup&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gbpusd-forecast-pound-lands-experts-in-the-soup&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-gbpusd-06-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=61427e0f022924e20ebd6b75942c9ac5