+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-08"
description = "ECB won’t reply to German judges."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "ECB won’t reply to German judges."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 8, 2020

May 8, 2020

ECB: who let the judges out?Dmitri Demidenko

##  **German Constitutional court’s verdict on QE program looks
strange**

After Donald Trump afforded to criticize the Fed and speculate about the
pros and cons of a weak and a strong dollar, many dream of following his
example.  Germany’s Supreme Court made another attempt to hog the
blanket: it demanded that ECB should justify the appropriateness of its
€2.7 trillion QE program launched in 2015. If the ECB fails to do that,
the Bundesbank will no longer participate in it. Following Trump,
Karlsruhe’s lawyers might have understood life is a dog sled: the
landscape is always the same unless you’re the leader.

![LiteForex: ECB won’t reply to German judges.][1]

Dance like no one’s watching, sing like no one’s listening and express
your opinion as if you’ve been asked to. The verdict of Germany’s
Constitutional Court shocked both ECB [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s and plaintiffs
themselves. The latter didn’t really believe in the success of their
affair after the ECB said the QE program was legitimate. But German
judges not only played a dirty trick on the ECB, but also opposed EU
principles and norms by overruling the decision of the European Court.

the Executive Board isn’t planning to reply. First, it would undermine
the ECB’s independence: they would have to justify every step they make
in future if a regional court asked them to. Second, everything has been
explained on the ECB’s site already.  And can’t they really understand
that QE is meant for fighting with the pandemic?

> \- I can’t be that dumb.

>

> \- You underestimate yourself.

According to Christine Lagarde, the current [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) are exceptional and
they allow the ECB to go beyond the scope of usual instruments.   The
ECB is an independent establishment accountable to the European
Parliament. It will go on doing what it has to do based on its own
mandate.  The Frenchwoman made the judges in Karlsruhe understand the
ECB wasn’t going to react.

Germany’s High Court did recognize that QE wasn’t a direct government
financing program. That weakened the euro, but didn’t allow it to
collapse.  It would have been strange if German judges had spoken of a
union between monetary and fiscal policies while the ECB was doing all
the dirty work and the German Ministry of Finance was being cheapskate.
Money doesn’t disappear into thin air. It just changes its owner.

![LiteForex: ECB won’t reply to German judges.][2]

Anyway, the German verdict stirred up financial markets, as Donald
Trump’s verbal interventions did in 2017-2020.  The ECB has three months
for explaining why its QE program has more benefits than shortcomings.
There are so many people eager for ruling. But few are those who strive
for work.  The Executive Board will keep silent, the European Court is
bewildered and the euro got hit in the jaw. How will we work that shit
out, dear Europeans? Perhaps, like Donald Trump who declared the USA was
about to create a vaccine against Democrats’ electoral victory?

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![ECB: who let the judges out?][5]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/dog-team-08-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=50ea5b14a71dfbafb7a225488e143a4a
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/money-08-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=e7d6eb3b8006f0532696d43aebab994e
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=ecb-who-let-the-judges-out&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=ecb-who-let-the-judges-out&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/liteforex-blog-ecb-08-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=7258e651a6d565bc58d312d47901be4c