+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-08"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 08.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 08.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 8, 2020

May 8, 2020

Dollar backsteppedDmitri Demidenko

## The US-China trade war may not start again

The US stocks again support the euro. The [EUR/USD][1] bears failed to
break through the support at 1.077-1.0775 or send the pair down, as the
euro was supported by the S&P 500, rising amid good [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/). The FOMC
officials believe that the recession can be averted, analysts discuss a
potential boost of the fiscal stimulus, the trade representatives of the
U.S. and China sound optimistic. Therefore, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are lured back to
the U.S. stocks. However, the U.S. jobs report for April may discourage
them.

On of the U.S. dollar’s growth drivers in early May were the talks about
the US-China trade war escalation that increased the safe-haven demand.
Donald Trump threatened China with new tariffs. First, he suggested that
the COVID-19 had appeared in a Chinese laboratory, next, he claimed that
China failed to fulfill the commitments, agreed in January, to increase
the purchases if the US products by $200 billion, including $77 billion
in 2020. Over the first four months, the US exports to China contracted
by 5.9%, which raises doubts that the parties fulfill their obligations.
However, Liu He, Robert Lighthizer, and Steven Mnuchin sound optimistic.
This optimism supports [EUR/USD][1] bulls.

Yes, Donald Trump needs someone to blame ahead of the US presidential
elections. However, the more pressure he puts on Beijing, the more his
protectionism will be criticized. The US protectionism doesn’t seem to
be efficient. The US failed to make China do everything Trump had
wanted. Even though Chinese exports to the U.S. declined by $60 billion
due to the import tariffs, but the exports to other countries increased
by about $70 billion.

 **Dynamics of China’s exports**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 08.05.2020][2]

 _Source: Wall Street Journal_

Trump is getting more cooperative. The US stock indexes are also
supported by the information that Democrats in the House of
Representatives prepare a draft bill that is expected to include more
than $750 billion in aid, and the FOMC officials announce that there
won’t be repeated the story of the Great Depression of the 1930s.
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President Neel Kashkari says the Fed
is going to continue to be aggressive to fight that outcome. Atlanta
Fed’s president Raphael Bostic says it is better to do more than
necessary than to do too little to support the U.S. economic recovery.

The optimism of the FOMC officials was expected, however, the US jobs
report will probably show that the current economic state of the USA is
even worse than in the 1930s. According to the analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, the US unemployment rate should be up to its record high of
16% in April, the employment will contract by 22 million jobs, which is
27 times more than the worst employment drop in the crisis of 2007-2009
and 11 times more than the previous drop in September 1945 when the US
economy was recovering after World War II. Will the S&P 500 remain
stable? If the uptrend continues, the [EUR/USD][1] may climb higher than
1.09. Otherwise, the bears will again try to break out the support
1.077-1.0775.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar backstepped][5]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/export-china-08-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=78a853dce461ddca70825d0dfe62e420
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-backstepped&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-backstepped&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-08-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=7adf7e3d33c1b9ea5797550a8108ef5b