+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-02"
description = "Divergence in cryptocurrency market"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Divergence in cryptocurrency market"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-02

2020-10-02

Divergence in cryptocurrency market. How to use divergence for
cryptocurrency tradingMikhail Hypov

Dear friends,

I continue my series of training posts, and this time, I would like to
speak about divergences.

## How to apply divergence in technical analysis of cryptocurrency?

You are likely to have come across this notion in the reviews of
analysts and traders, but I don’t think that you have studied this topic
in detail.

Everybody knows that divergences are divided into bullish and bearish.
But how many types of divergence can you enumerate?

The answer is three.

The term of divergence is quite common and is widely used in
mathematics, physics, biology, linguistics. Its nature is the same
everywhere and comes from Latin ‘divergo’, that means ‘deviate’.

In technical analysis, divergence occurs when an indicator and the price
of an asset are heading in opposite directions.

The advantage of divergence in technical analysis is that, unlike most
signals, divergence is a leading one.

The principle of this signal is rather simple. If it has appeared, the
trend is likely to reverse soon, or, at least, the market is likely to
move sideways.

Therefore, bearish divergence will mean the price reversal downwards,
and bullish one will mean that the price will reverse upwards.

Divergence signal is relevant in all timeframes, but like for most
signals, the subordination law works here as well. That is, divergence
in a longer timeframe is a stronger signal than that in a shorter one.

If we discuss Bitcoin in this respect, I can say, based on my own
experience, that the most suitable timeframe to identify divergences is
12-hour one.

It is difficult for me to explain, why, but exactly in this timeframe
the signals work the most efficiently.

To look for divergence signals, I use a number of oscillators, such as:

  * Chaikin oscillator
  * [DeMarker](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/demarker.html)
  * MACD
  * Stochastic
  * RSI
  * Volume oscillator.

Why do I use exactly them?

Because, each of them is unique in a way, has its own features and the
limit of sensitivity in different market conditions.

You can use any other oscillator, convenient for you, as in this post, I
primarily aim at describing the very nature of Divergence signal and how
to correctly read it in the chart.

 So, as I have already said, there are three types of divergence, they
are:

  * Regular Divergence (opposite to the trend),
  * Hidden Divergence (following the trend),
  * Extended Divergence.

Besides, it should be remembered that divergence is relevant solely
until the next extreme is formed, after that, it loses its relevance.

 **Example of Regular (opposite to the trend) divergence**

In the chart above we see an example of regular BEARISH divergence, that
is also called the divergence, opposite to the trend.

The principle of the signal is based on its name.

In the chart above we see, although all-time highs are being renewed
within the bullish trend, the oscillators, Chaikin, Volume and RSI, show
highs lower than the previous ones.

For presentation purpose, I marked this signal with blue arrows.

As we see from the [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/), this signal 100% worked out, and the people
who followed this signal, left the market on time, having sold their
[bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/)s at all-time highs.

In case of regular BULLISH divergence, the signal works according to the
same principle, that is the indicator, despite the market lows renewals,
will show higher lows.

 **Example of Hidden (following the trend) divergence**

In the chart above we see a good example of the opposite divergence,
which is also called hidden divergence, or following the trend
divergence.

Beginners often confuse Hidden Bearish divergence with Regular Bullish
one, which results in bad mistakes. Traders open long positions, when,
on the contrary, they should look for short ones.

In the chart above, it especially clearly identified by [DeMarker](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/demarker.html), MACD
and RSI, that there is this tricky Hidden BEARISH divergence.

Its principle is opposite to the regular divergence; here, an oscillator
shows higher highs, which the price fails to reach.

As you see, this signal had also perfectly worked out, and the market,
following the signal, slipped down into the correction.

For Hidden BULLISH divergence, everything is visa versa; an indicator
shows lower lows, when the price fails to reach them.

 **An example of Extended divergence**

Extended divergence often occurs during the market moving sideways, when
there are not so many highs and lows. It also occurs when Double Bottom
or Double Top patterns are forming, being a perfect confirming signal of
the trend reversal.

In this case, one needs to follow, what value indicates an oscillator,
when the price reaches the border of the lateral (side-way) channel.

In the chart above, we see that the price had only reached the previous
low, when Volume oscillator and [DeMarker](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/demarker.html) showed the higher lows.

This signal is Extended BULLISH divergence.

Extended BEARISH divergence based on the same principle. It occurs when
the price highs are at the same level, but an oscillator fails to
indicate the previous highs and showed the highs, lower than the
previous ones.

 **What’s now?**

To analyze the situation accurately and find out divergences, it is
necessary to follow an asset moves in all timeframes, from the weekly
one to the hourly one.

Let’s try to analyze our dear Bitcoin in this respect.

As wee see, in the weekly chart, there are weak attempts to form regular
bullish divergence on volume oscillator.

This oscillator is one of the most sensitive, so, its signal always need
proofs.

As wee see, the rest of oscillator are still following the market, and
only Chaikin oscillator gives a signal, suggesting that a divergence is
likely to form.

In combination, this signal can be a sign of weakening correction and a
soon beginning of the end, or at least a pause, of the bearish trend.

In the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) chart, the situation hardly clarifies.

We see that volume oscillator has already started renewing the highs,
although the market is still moving downwards.

However, the other indicators don’t give strong reversal signals.

That means, this slight rollback that is developing now, can well be the
result of the single signs, indicated by volume oscillator.

In 6-hour chart, the situation looks even worse.

As we see in the chart above, there is bearish divergence, indicated by
Chaikin and volume oscillators, it is already quite a good reason for
correctional move.

In 4-hour chart, bearish trend is confirmed by [DeMarker](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/demarker.html).

As we look for divergence by comparing the price move and the
indicators, for more clarity, I recommend using Zig Zag. It highlights
the local extremes in the price chart, which makes the analysis easier
for [beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/).

Don’t forget, to look for divergences in a bearish trend, we compare
lows, and in a bullish trend – highs.

The divergences themselves should be only seen as a confirming,
complementary signals for your trading strategy.

Opening a position, based on solely a divergence signal, involves
extreme risk!

A good combination of the analysis of divergence with [trading strategies](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/)
is the use of this analysis in channel trading.

See the example in the chart above.

Now, the market is moving in a descending channel, and bearish
divergence in 4-hour chart indicates that this channel is unlikely to be
broken out from below. Therefore, when the price rebounds from the upper
channel border, short positions can be opened with essential following
money management rules and setting stop loss orders.

I wish you good luck and good profits!



* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][1]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][2] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=what-is-divergence-on-forex&slug2=divergence-in-cryptocurrency-market&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   2. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=what-is-divergence-on-forex&slug2=divergence-in-cryptocurrency-market&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus