+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-02"
description = "US dollar price forecast October 2 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast October 2 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-02

2020-10-02

Dollar gets a test for COVID-19. Forecast as of 02.10.2020Dmitri
Demidenko

The political uncertainty in the US could significantly increase as
Donald Trump tests positive for coronavirus. What about the greenback? I
will cover the latest [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) and offer a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Weekly fundamental US dollar forecast

Investors used to believe that the oil trend will change if the Crown
Prince of Saudi Arabia sneezes. Nowadays, the US dollar trend depends on
the US president’s health. Markets were shocked as Donald Trump said he
would quarantine after one of the president's closest aides tested
positive for the coronavirus. Donald Trump is also COVID-19 positive,
the uncertainty is being fueled.

Donald Trump’s illness could add benefits to his opponent. Joe Biden
charges the US administration with poor management of the pandemic.
There have been seven million of coronavirus cases in the US, 200,000 of
them died. The COVID-19 situation in the US doesn’t improve. Moreover, a
cold snap can provoke a second wave. Besides, the lack of additional
assistance from Congress reduces the population's incomes, and an
increase in the number of layoffs and bankruptcies hinders the labor
market recovery.

### Dynamics of personal incomes in USA



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Whoever wins the US presidential election, he will get a very weak
economy, whose recovery is slowing down partially because of the absence
of an additional fiscal stimulus. The House of Representatives passed
the $2.2-trillion draft package offered by the Democrats. However, there
is hardly a chance the Senate will approve it. The US growth is sliding
down amid the political matters, and the dollar benefits as a safe-haven
asset.

What about the euro? Amid the COVID-19 situation's deterioration, the
euro-area manufacturing PMI has surprisingly increased from 51.7 to 53.7
in September! However, the majority of this expansion was provided by
Germany, which benefits from the growing Chinese PMI.

### Dynamics of PMIs



 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

The economic recovery is going on much slower in the South of Europe.
According to the ECB official, Pablo Hernández de Cos, the central bank
must maintain a substantial monetary stimulus until sustained recovery
is achieved. The QE size could be boosted in case of necessity, and the
central bank could also start average inflation targeting [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). I
believe the ECB officials, including Christine Lagarde, spend too much
effort to press down the euro. However, the Fed’s willingness to hold
the low interest rates for a long time didn’t crash the US dollar. In
the modern world, doctors and finance ministers play a more important
role than bankers.

###  **Weekly[EURUSD][1] trading plan**

The balance of powers in the major currency pair is clear. In the long
run, the euro will be rising. In the medium term, the [EURUSD][1] is
likely to be corrected down amid the increase in political uncertainty.
In the short run, the euro-dollar has been stuck in the consolidation
[range of 1.161-1.177][2]; it could go beyond it after the US jobs
report. Nonetheless, I wouldn’t enter trades on the channel breakout.
Weak employment data could send down the US stock indexes, which will
support the greenback growth.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-goes-up-amid-the-troubles-forecast-as-of-30092020/
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-will-get-a-test-for-covid-19-forecast-as-of-02102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-will-get-a-test-for-covid-19-forecast-as-of-02102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus