+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-20"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 20, 2020

April 20, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.04.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude –** **oil** ****

Starting from today, the CME Group increased margin requirements for oil
futures to 7500 USD per contract. This is the record value for US crude
oil futures.

It is clear form the medium-term timeframe that the price has reached
the major sell target, Target Zone 2 [17.69 - 17.13]. The medium-term
trend is still down. If sellers break out TZ2, the next downside target
will be TZ 3 [12.09 — 11.53].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.04.2020][1]

The short-term trend is also down. Oil price is now trading in the
support zone Target Zone 2 [17.69 – 17.13]. A local correction may start
up from this zone.

Strong resistance zones are now Additional Zone [18.64 - 18.45] and
Intermediary Zone [20.26 – 19.93]. If the price is corrected up to these
zones, it will be relevant to look for new sell trades according to the
pattern. The sell target will be to break through the local low.

It will be relevant to buy oil after the key resistance of the
downtrend, Intermediary Zone, is broken out upside.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.04.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [18.64 - 18.45]. TakeProfit: 16.65. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules. 

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [20.26 - 19.93]. TakeProfit: 16.65. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules. 

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

Gold price is being corrected down in the medium-term uptrend. The
correction target is the test of the key support zone [1663.9 – 1655.6].
After the support is tested, I recommend looking for new purchases.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.04.2020][4]

The short-term chart indicates the reversal of the short-term trend
down. Traders broke out Intermediary Zone [1705.7 – 1701.5] and
consolidated the price below on Friday. It is now relevant to enter
short-term sell trades on gold with the target at Target Zone [1663.9 –
1655.6].

I suggests looking for sell entries in the resistance zones, Additional
Zone [1696.6 - 1694.3] and Intermediary Zone [1721.7 – 1717.2].

It will be relevant to buy gold when the short-term trend reverses.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.04.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1696.6 - 1694.3]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1663.9 - 1655.6]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules. 

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1721.7 - 1717.2]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1663.9 - 1655.6]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules. 

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EURUSD is still trading in the middle-term downtrend, the target is
to break through April’s low and break out Target Zone 2 [1.0803 –
1.0786]. If TZ2 is broken out downside, the next sell target will be TZ
3 [1.0631 — 1.0614].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.04.2020][7]

The short-term euro trend is down. Intermediary Zone was broken out last
week. Now, the sell target is Target Zone [1.0808 – 1.0790].

The price is now being corrected up. Traders tried to reach the trend
key resistance [1.0912 - 1.0903]. They may try again today.

After the new Intermediary Zone is tested, I recommend looking for sell
trades according to the pattern. It will be relevant to buy in the
alternative scenario, if the IZ is broken out upside and the price is
consolidated above.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.04.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

Hold down middle-term sell trades entered in Target Zone [1.0957 -
1.0940]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [1.0803 - 1.0786], 1.0773. StopLoss:
at breakeven

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.04.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_200420_1.png?w=30&s=9acc0ad4744b4467e2ac404738c4156a
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_200420_2.png?w=30&s=8db9e2712547dcb93288681b08b89a7d
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_200420_1.png?w=30&s=2e45b7b0a79902134f4d692631f2acfb
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_200420_2.png?w=30&s=92e6f2ecb5a87a779e7f78901d99f21a
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_200420_1.png?w=30&s=669af62ef61b94d7b6f176309b2a745f
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_200420_2.png?w=30&s=1b94e409ee0b20695d1716331b1e3a40
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-20042020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-20042020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/oil_141.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=12c4e614ad9b93b6c74fda7477bbc9bf