+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-20"
description = "NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 11. The retracement rule 7, conditions “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d”."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 11. The retracement rule 7, conditions “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d”."
type = "post"
+++

April 20, 2020

April 20, 2020

NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.Mikhail Hypov

## NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Retracement rule 7, conditions “a”,
“b”, “c’, and “d”.

Dear friends!

Today, I will finish covering the rules of retracement. Read on about
the retracement rule 7.

If you are not familiar with the NeoWave theory, I strongly recommend
reading all the articles in the NeoWave series to learn about the most
modern interpretation of the Elliott Wave theory, based on Glenn Neely’s
book Mastering Elliott Wave, starting from the first one:

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][1].

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels. ][2]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][3]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][5]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][6].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and “d”][10]

### Rule 7

Rule 7 works if m2 is moving in the opposite direction to m1 and is more
than 261.8% of m1.  After measuring the relation of m0 to m1, we pick up
one or several of the conditions and mark the waves with the
corresponding structure labels.

### Condition (a). If m0 is less than 100% of m1, then:

### If m2 is a polywave and is composed of more than three monowaves (or
monowave groups), then:

1\. Place ":5/:s5" at the end of m1 and "x:c3?" at the end of m2, if the
first three monowaves of m2 do not retrace more than 61.8% of m1. In
this case, the first or second monowave (immediately after the end of
m1) may start a complex correction moving in the opposite direction of
m1, representing the x-wave. In an alternative scenario, m1 contains a
"missing" x-wave in its center, or m1 is the 3rd-wave of a 5th-failure
impulse pattern (trending or terminal).

Remember, I covered the basics of Elliott wave patterns, x-waves,
trending, and terminal impulse patterns, as well as basic structure
labels in the [second part ][2]of the NeoWave series.

 _ _Considering the missing x-wave scenario,__ _circle the center of m_
_1_ _and_ _place ":5 ?" to the left of the circle and ":F3 ?" to the
right of the circle, the end of the_ _c_ _omplex_ _c_ _orrection_ _will
be confirmed immediately before the point when the market violently
turns (in the opposite direction_ _of m_ _1_ _) and_ __ _m2_ __ _exceeds
the 61.8% retracement level of m_ _1._

2\. If the first three monowaves of m2 retrace more than 61.8% of ml, m1
may complete the a-wave of a flat with a complex b-wave, or m1 may have
complete the third wave of a 5th failure impulse pattern. Place ":F3/:5"
at the end of m1 to show these two possibilities respectively.

### If m2 is composed of no more than three monowaves (or monowave
groups) or is a monowave, then:

No matter what wave pattern is m1, “:L5” is a very likely possibility
here, so, place it at the end if m1.

If m3 is less than 61.8% of m2, m(-2) is shorter than m(-1), and m(-2)
and m0 share some similar price territory, m1 might conclude a terminal
impulse pattern. So add"(:L3)" to the structure list.

### Let us see how rule 7 (a) works on the example:

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 11. The retracement
rule 7, conditions “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d”.][11]

First, we check if the current market situation refers to rule 7. Wave
m2 is moving in the opposite direction of m1 and retraces more than
261.8% of m1. So, the activation requirement of rule 7 is
met.![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 11. The retracement
rule 7, conditions “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d”.][12]

Next, we pick up the relevant condition of rule 7. It is clear from the
chart that m0 is a little less than 100% of m1, so the (a) works here.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 11. The retracement
rule 7, conditions “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d”.][13]

The next step is to find out the relevant paragraph of the (a)
condition. As m2 (its start and end are marked with red circles in the
chart), is a polywaves that is composed of three monowaves, the second
paragraph of the (a) condition applies there.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 11. The retracement
rule 7, conditions “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d”.][14]

The final step is to pick up the relevant structure label. In the given
situation the basic case of the (a) condition works, according to which
we place “:L5” at the end of m1.

### Condition (b). If m0 is at least 100% but less than 161,.8% of m1,
then:

### If m3 is a polywave and is composed of more than three monowaves (or
monowave groups).

1. If the first three monowaves of m3 do not retrace more than 61.8% of
m2, a complex correction may be unfolding with the first or second
monowave (immediately after the end of m2), moving in the same direction
as m1, representing an x-wave. In an alternative scenario, m2 has a
"missing" b-wave in its center, or m2 is the 3rd-wave of a 5th-failure
impulse pattern (trending or terminal). Therefore, place
":F3/:c3/:L3/:L5" at the end of m1.

Besides:

  * If more than five monowaves are required to retrace more than 61.8% of m2, drop ":F3" and the 3rd-wave or 5th-Failure scenario as a possibility.

  * Considering the "missing" wave scenario, circle the center of m2 and place ":5” __to the left of the circle and "b:F3/ x:c3 ?" to the right of the circle.

  * The scenario suggesting the end of the complex correction will be confirmed when the market violently turns (in the opposite direction of m1) and m3 exceeds the 61.8% retracement level of m2. The termination of the complex correction would be at the beginning of the violent turn-around. To consider all these possibilities, place "x:c3 ?" at the end of the first and second monowaves of m3.

2. If the first three monowaves of m3 retrace more than 61.8% of m2, m2
may complete the a-wave of a flat with a complex b-wave, or m1 may
complete the third wave of a 5th failure impulse pattern. Place ":F3/:5"
at the end of m1 to show these two possibilities respectively

### If m3 is composed of three monowaves (r monowave groups) or less, or
it is a monowave, then:

1. If m3 is between 100%-261.8% of m2, m1 may be a part of an expanding
triangle. So, place ":c3" at the end of m1.

If m4 is more than 61.8% of m3, add “:F3” to the structure list of m1.

2. If m1 is not much more than 61.8% of m0, and ****m3 is less than
61.8% or more than 100% of m2 in a period of time equal to or less than
that taken by m2, and ****the time it took for m2 to equal the length of
m0 was equal to or less than that consumed by m0, and ****m2's movement
is more vertical than that of m0, m1 is likely to complete a contracting
triangle or a c-failure flat; then, place ":L3/:L5" at the end of m1.

3.  If m3 is at least 61.8% but less than 100% of m2, m2 is likely to
conclude an elongated flat. Therefore, add "(:c3)" to m1’s structure
list.

4. If m2 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount
of time (or less) that it took to form, m2 may finish a trending impulse
pattern. Then, place ":L5" at the end of m1.

However, you should add “:sL3” to m1’s structure list, m2 may conclude a
5th extension terminal impulse if all the below conditions are met:

  * m(-1) is shorter than m0, and m0 is equal to or longer than m(-2) or m2.

  * The price approaches (or exceeds) the beginning of m(-2) in a period of time 50% or less of that consumed by the group of waves m(-2) through m2.

### Let us see how rule 7 (b) works on the example:

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 11. The retracement
rule 7, conditions “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d”.][15]

First, we check if the current market situation corresponds to
retracement rule 7. It is clear from the above chart that m2 is more
than 261.8% of m1. Therefore, the requirements of rule 7 are met.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 11. The retracement
rule 7, conditions “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d”.][16]

The next step is to pick up the relevant condition of rule 7. It is
clear from the above chart that m0 is between 100% and 161.8% of m1, and
m3 is a monowave. We can state that the wave structure corresponds to
the (b) condition, its second paragraph.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 11. The retracement
rule 7, conditions “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d”.][17]

And, finally, we identify the structure label. In our case, the most
relevant seems to be the second condition of the second paragraph of
rule (b). It is clear from the chart that m1 is little more than 61.8%
of m0, m3 is noticeably less than 61.8% of m2, and it reaches its low in
a period of time that is equal to (or less) that it took to form m2.
However, not all the requirements of this paragraph are met, for
example, the time, during which m2 approaches the length of m0, is
longer than m0, and m2’s movement is less vertical when compared to m0.
Neely accepts a failure to comply with some conditions. Note that the
exact position of the wave being analyzed can be identified after
studying the surrounding waves. In the meanwhile, we place “:L3/:L5” at
the end of m1.

### Condition (c). If m0 is between 161.8% and 261.8% of m1 (inclusive),
then:

1\. If ml takes the same amount of time (or more) as m0, or m1 takes the
same amount of time (or more) as m2, despite any other circumstances,
":F3" is a good possibility; place “:F3" at the end of m1.

2\. If the time it took for m2 to reach the length of m0 is equal to (or
less) than that taken by m0, and ****m2's price coverage is larger and
more vertical than that of m0, and ****m(-4) is longer than m(-2), then
m1 may complete a contracting triangle. So, place ":L3" at the end of
m1.

3\. If the time it took for m2 to approach the length of m0 is equal to
(or less) than that taken by m0 and, ****m2's price coverage is larger
and more vertical than that of m0, and ****m(-2) is at least 161.8% of
m0, and ****m(-2) is at least 61.8% of m2, and m(-l)'s structure list
contains an ":F3," m1 may complete an irregular failure flat. And so,
place ":L5" at the end of m1.

4\. If m2 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount
of time (or less) that it took to form, and ****the market approaches
(or exceeds) the beginning of m(-2) in a period of time 50% (or less) of
that consumed to form the wave-group m(-2) through m2, and ****m0 is
longer than m(-2), m2 may complete an expanding terminal impulse
pattern. Add ":sL3" to the end of m1

5\. If m1 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount
of time (or less) that it took to form, and ****m2 is at least 161.8% of
m0, and ****m1 breaks through a trendline drawn across the end of m(-3)
and m(-l), m1 may conclude a running correction. Therefore, place “:L5”
at the end of m1.

### Let us see how rule 7 (c) works on the example:

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 11. The retracement
rule 7, conditions “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d”.][18]

First, we check if the current market situation satisfies the
requirement of rule 7. It is clear from the chart that m2 is more than
261.8% of m1. Therefore, the criteria for the seventh rule are met.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 11. The retracement
rule 7, conditions “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d”.][19]

Next, we identify the relevant condition of the seventh rule. It is
clear from the above chart that wave m0 is between 161.8% and 261.8% of
m1, so there works the (c) condition.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 11. The retracement
rule 7, conditions “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d”.][20]

Now, let us identify the paragraph of the (c) condition that refers to
our example. Only paragraph 2 corresponds to our situation. That is m2
(the green area in the chart) reaches m0 faster than it took to form m0
(the green area), m2’s price coverage is larger and more vertical than
that of m0.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 11. The retracement
rule 7, conditions “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d”.][21]

Wave m(-4) (the blue area in the chart) is longer than m(-2) (the green
area).

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 11. The retracement
rule 7, conditions “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d”.][22]

Therefore, m1 is likely to finish a contracting triangle. So, we place
“:L3” at the end of m1.

### Condition (d). If wave m0 is more than 261.8% of m1, then:

1\. If m0 (minus one time unit) is less than or equal in time to m1, or
if m2 (minus one time unit) is less than or equal in time to m1, and
****as long as m1 is not simultaneously less in time than both m0 and
m2, m1 may be a part of a zigzag or impulse pattern, place ":F3" at the
end of m1.

2\. Place “x:c3” at the end of m1, as m1 may be an x-wave of a double
zigzag or a complex correction (which begins with a zigzag) if the
following requirements are met:

  * m1 takes the same amount of time (or less) as m0 and/or m2.
  * m(-2) is at least 161.8% of m(-1).
  * m(-1) is shorter than m0.
  * m1 is less than 61.8% of the distance from the beginning of m(-2) through the end of m0.
  * m3 is longer than m2.
  * m4 is shorter than m3.
  * 61.8% of m(-2) through m2 is retraced before the end of m2 is exceeded.

3. m1 may be the x-wave of a complex correction which starts with a flat
and ends with a flat or triangle; so, put ''x:c3" at the end of m1 if
the following conditions are met:

  * If m1 takes the same amount of time (or less) as m0 or m2.
  * m0 is between 100%–161.8% of m(-1).
  * m2 is not more than 161.8% of m0.
  * m4 is at least 38.2% of m2.
  * m3 is longer than m2.
  * m4 is shorter than m3.

4. If m1 is less than or equal to m0 in time and/or ****m1 is less than
or equal to m2 in time, place ":c3" at the end of m1.

However:

  * If m(-1) and m1 are almost equal in price or time or both (or related in either case by 61.8%), and ****m(-1) is shorter than m0, and, ****when comparing the price lengths of m(-2), m0 and m2, m0 is not the shortest of the three and not one of the three is more than 161.8 of the next smaller, then m1 may be a part of a complex double zigzag (which will involve one or two x-waves). So, add an "x" in front of ":c3."

Besides:

  * If the longest wave of the three waves mentioned above is m(-2) or m2, the x-wave is likely to be at the end of m1. But if there are other structure label possibilities for m1 other than ":c3," the x-wave could be at the end of m(-l) or m(3).

  * If m0 is the longest of m(-2), m0 and m2, the x-wave may be "missing" in the center of m0, mark the center of m0 with a dot and put "x:c3?" to the right of the dot and place ":s5" to the left of the dot; m(-2), in this instance, would be the beginning of the Elliott pattern and m2 would be the end.

  * If the group of waves m(-2) through m2 constitutes a complex correction with a "missing" x-wave, the market should retrace between 61.8%-100% of it before the next wave group (of the same degree as the complex correction) begins. If the "missing" x-wave complex correction is retraced less than 61.8%, and ****then the market exceeds the end of the complex correction. Either the wave group of m(-2) through m2 does not make up such a pattern or the complex correction is part of a terminal impulse pattern.

5. m1 may be the final segment of a running correction, and so, place
“:L5” at the end of m1 if the following conditions are met:

  * If m1 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount of time (or less) that it took to form,
  * m(-1) and m1 are equal in price and time (or related by 61.8% in either case),
  * m2 is at least 161.8% of m0,
  * m1 and m(-1) do not share any similar price range,
  * m2 is not retraced faster than it took to form.

However, If m(-2) is less than 161.8% of m0, and ****m3 is less than
61.8% of m2, ****and ****the structure label ":L5" is used, m1
simultaneously terminates several Elliott patterns, each of
consecutively larger degree.

6. If m3 is less than 61.8% of m2, and m2's price coverage is larger and
more vertical than mO and ****m(-l) is no more than 161.8% of m0 and
****m(-1) and m1 share some of the same price range and ****at least one
of m0’s Structure possibilities contains a ":3", there is a small chance
m1 completes a contracting triangle. Place “(:L3)” at the end of m1.

However, If m(-1) and m1 are equal (or related by 61.8%) in price or
time or both, and ****m(-1) and m1 share some of the same price range,
m1 may complete an irregular or c-failure flat. In this case, place
":L5" at the end of m1

7. If m3 is less than 61.8% of m2, m2's price coverage is between 61.8%
and 161.8% of m0, and ****m(-1) is shorter than m0, and m(-1) is not
more than 161.8% of m0, m1 may be an x-wave of a complex corrective
pattern. So, place “x:c3” at the end of m1.

8. m2 may conclude a terminal pattern, and place “(:sL3)” at the end of
m1 if the below conditions are met:

  * If m2 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount of time (or less) that it took to form,
  * m4 is no more than 61.8% of m3,
  * m(-1) is shorter than m0,
  * m(-1) and m1 share a part of the same price territory,
  * m0 is not shorter than m(-2) and/or m2,
  * m3, in a period of time 50% (or less) of that consumed m(-2) through m2, closely approaches (or exceeds) the beginning of m(-2).

### Let us see how rule 7 (d) works on the example.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 11. The retracement
rule 7, conditions “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d”.][23]

First, we check if the current market situation corresponds to the
requirements of rule 7. It is clear from the chart that m2 is more than
m1. So, rule 7 works here.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 11. The retracement
rule 7, conditions “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d”.][24]

The next step is to pick up the relevant condition of the seventh rule.
Wave m0 is more than 261.8% of m1. So, the (d) condition works here.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 11. The retracement
rule 7, conditions “a”, “b”, “c”, and “d”.][25]

And, finally, we determine the structure label. It is clear from the
chart that only the first part of the fourth paragraph of the (d)
condition is met. Wave m1 is less than or equal to m0 and m2 in time.
Sp, we place “:c3” at the end of m1.

When you analyze the chart, having determined the rules and the
conditions to apply to the current wave, analyze the next wave, and do
the same with all the important waves in the chart.

In the next educational articles, I will cover the Elliot wave patterns,
rules of construction and development.

* * *

Take care of yourself and your money!

Subscribe and be the first to read the most up-to-date materials!

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][26]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][27] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][28]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b/
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a/
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-10-retracement-rule-6-conditions-b-c-and-d/
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.15/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=3179576e2ad7be99c173e046b0e7a91d
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.15/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=627193e8e5bb93bb1f07dd6cb11bf243
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.15/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=3ca3bf55a22d6772d431ef5ae868d412
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.15/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=29221d92fdaf6440d727d626aa0fc9c8
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.15/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=dcad8ccdfddf30772b385a7a3615eb0a
   16. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.15/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=f8e21115301e938bf5c0e82bc1212abc
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.15/BTCUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=ce673a683265086fbcd099377e88ed14
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.15/BTCUSD_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=585b956f182ae402ffb863e71b0b9d96
   19. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.15/BTCUSD_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=5d7a36b96cca095d3b2a722626433de9
   20. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.15/BTCUSD_hypov_10.jpg?w=30&s=cd5a630cc2b8bb8c6cf90f550b8ce045
   21. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.15/BTCUSD_hypov_11.jpg?w=30&s=569cb37c8d1ef53526bee8c01e0f7664
   22. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.15/BTCUSD_hypov_12.jpg?w=30&s=dd21bd6d5f8bb62248b259a30fbd312a
   23. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.15/BTCUSD_hypov_13.jpg?w=30&s=84d51527a326abd98ef6323a3bf61963
   24. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.15/BTCUSD_hypov_14.jpg?w=30&s=015d73903ce094b6da43a96f67536b58
   25. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.15/BTCUSD_hypov_15.jpg?w=30&s=29a477618844d4bd4fd10f62752d1f30
   26. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-11-retracement-rule-7&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   27. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-11-retracement-rule-7&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   28. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.15/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=7e0be4770942890e2c71a2b8d9b152bf