+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-06"
description = "British pound price forecast for October 06 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "British pound price forecast for October 06 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-06

2020-10-06

Pound’s game is worth it. Forecast as of 06.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The [GBPUSD][1] bulls have new allies, the US Democrats. If the UK fails
to strike a deal with the EU, they promise to block the trade deal with
the UK. Let us discuss the prospect of the sterling and make up a
[GBPUSD][1] trading plan

##  **Fundamental Pound forecast for this week**

Whoever’s here is here, whoever’s not is not. Entering [GBPUSD][1] longs
on the breakout of the [resistance at 1.2925-1.293][2] was a risk, but
the price is already breaking out level 1.3 and the bulls are willing to
continue the rally. Yes, there hasn’t been great progress in the UK-EU
talks, but the sides are willing to continue negotiations. On the
contrary, the British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and the President of
the European Commission, Ursula  **von der Leyen** , are willing to come
to an active stage of the negotiations. The sides are moving towards a
Brexit deal, which encourages the sterling buyers.

The pound’s state seems to be worse than ever. About 80% of jobs in
Britain are created in the services sector (in Germany – 72%, in France
– 78%), which is the most damaged by the COVID-19 industry. Furthermore,
the expiration of the HM Treasury's leave extension programs could raise
the number of unemployed to more than 3 million. Unemployment has
already reached the levels it had during Margaret Thatcher's shock
therapy and is likely to continue rising. The labor market again decides
who will stay up.

The UK economy was seriously hit by the pandemic. It will hardly recover
before 2023, which gives the MPC reasons to discuss negative interest
rates. Investors expect the BoE to cut the interest rates below zero by
August 2021 and to boost the QE by the end of 2020. So, it is surprising
that the UK services PMI grew up to 56.1 in September amid the
exhaustion of the fiscal stimulus, the second COVID-19 wave associated
with new restrictions. The actual data were better than expected by
Bloomberg experts.

###  **Dynamics of UK services PMI**



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

After all, the major growth driver for the [GBPUSD][1] has been
politics, rather than the positive economic data. Boris Johnson's
willingness to go all-in using issuing the internal market bill and
cancel some provision of the UK-EU deal signed last year would seem to
ruin all the hopes for a Brexit deal. The risky game of the UK Prime
Minister has been worth it so far. Markets believe that Johnson will
rather cancel the document violating the norms of international law than
abandon the chance of a Brexit deal.

Especially since a no-deal Brexit could have negative consequences for
the UK. Joe Biden and the Democrats in the US Congress said they would
block the deal with the UK if it does not abandon the domestic market
legislation. If earlier Boris Johnson counted on Donald Trump, now he
needs to take into account the risks of his defeat in the elections. The
growing risks weaken the dollar and support the pound.

### Weekly [GBPUSD][1] trading plan

I believe the [GBPUSD][1] will continue jumping up and down in the short
run. This results from political matters both in the UK and the US and
is confirmed by the rise in the sterling's monthly volatility. However,
the three-month indicator is going down, and the demand for the pound
call opinions is growing, which suggests the buyers’ optimism. If the
pair breaks out the resistance at 1.3-1.301, we could add up to the
longs.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/pound-escaped-from-the-scaffold-forecast-as-of-29092020/
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pounds-game-is-worth-it-forecast-as-of-06102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pounds-game-is-worth-it-forecast-as-of-06102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus