+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-06"
description = "Exponential Moving Average: Ultimate Guide to using EMA Indicator in Forex Trading"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Exponential Moving Average: Ultimate Guide to using EMA Indicator in Forex Trading"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=10.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-06

2020-10-06

Moving Averages: How to Use EMA Indicator GuideArtem Shashkov

How many of you novice traders are familiar with the moving average
formula? However, ALL of you employ the MA indicator in trading,
wondering why the moving average “does not work” for YOU? It could make
sense first to understand how the indicator works, find out its core
principle and use the trading tool AFTER that.

Hey guys, disappointed in the technical indicator! You haven’t studied
what an exponential moving average is, have you? “It is just like an SMA
but different” am I right?

Well. This article is for those who want to understand the essence of
the EMA indicator trading and rules to use the ema moving average. Of
course, it will be of great use for those who haven’t tried EMA trading
at all.

The article covers the following subjects:

## What is Moving Average?

Any moving average (or MA in short) is an indicator showing the average
price value for a particular period. For example, in the last 8 hours,
in the last 5 days, etc.

A simple MA wasn’t sufficient for traders, so they invented millions of
Moving Average versions that could react to the price change as fast as
possible.

The exponential moving average (EMA) is a moving average analyzing the
current price change and indicating the most recent price moves.

## Types of Moving Averages

All hundreds of thousands of MA versions differ only in relation to the
current price. In the calculations, it has either a greater or lesser
value compared to the past data.

Each of these moving averages is used in technical analysis as a trend
indicator.

### [Exponential Moving Average](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/exponential-moving-average.html) Indicator (EMA)

What is the exponential moving average? The EMA moving average is
somehow more popular than other MA modifications. Maybe, because it
looks more smooth. The pleasant look is important in Forex, isn’t it?

Let us explore what is an exponential moving average in more detail.

The current indicator value already includes the current price, the
previous price, and the importance coefficient.

If the current price has more weight, the indicator will faster react to
the new information and look more like a zigzag.

Otherwise, the indicator will change its direction only when the price
movement is stronger or /and longer.

### [Simple Moving Average](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/simple-moving-average.html) Indicator (SMA)

Let us compare the simple moving average vs exponential moving average.
The current indicator value is the average price for a particular
period.

For example, if the set period is 8, the current value will indicate the
average for the last 8 periods.

The SMA, in this case, is a kind of a core around which the price is
fluctuating. The farther the current price is from the SMA, the stronger
it will tend to approach it. The stock exponential moving average shows
where the price is moving at the moment.

### Weighted Moving Average Indicator (WMA)

There is also WMA. Its calculation formula considers, first of all, the
current price. The price for each previous period will have less and
less weight.

With this regard, it is similar to the SMA but it is focused on the
present moment. So, it is not a good idea to see the price crossing WMA
as a confirmation for the trend reversal.

Why? It is too focused on the most recent prices, so the indicator will
always be very close to the current exchange rates. It will send quite
many false signals.

If you employ the Weighted Moving Average, I recommend considering the
trading counter-trend, something like a return to the average strategy.

## How Does [Exponential Moving Average](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/exponential-moving-average.html) Indicator Works

Well, that will do for theory; let us move on to practice. And see
exponential moving average vs simple moving average.

Note that no moving average, like SMA and EMA, will make trading
simpler. It won’t indicate the future trend direction.

Why?

Any indicator value derives from the price. It draws price movements. It
is the price chart presented differently. I can compare it to an X-ray.

When the price crosses the e moving average, many traders go crazy in
the wish to enter a trade as soon as possible. They see it as a trend
reversal signal. However, the price may or may not reverse, like at any
point in the chart.

At first, no trader understands the working principle of the indicator
added to the chart. I suggest analyzing each parameter of the estimated
moving average.

Everyone does quite well when it is about adding an indicator to the
price chart. You select EMA in an MT4 or MT5 platform lie this: Insert →
Indicators → Trend→ Moving average.

The EMA method is exponential.

The next important parameter is the EMA calculation period. It refers to
the number of candlesticks analyzed by the indicator.

Based on the timeframe, each candlestick will show the price change
quote over a certain period of time.

For example, for the M1 timeframe, each candlestick indicates the price
change over one minute. For the M15 timeframe, the indicator analyzes
the period of fifteen minutes. The D1 period means a [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) change, and
so on.

You should remember that the period is only the scale. So, I do not
think there is any point in finding a balance between too big and too
little value.

If you set 200, you will see the global trend.

If set 5, you will see the local trend.

The Apply to parameter shows which price type will be considered in the
EMA calculation formula.

Let us explore the major [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/):

Close means the closing price. This is the last price value in the
period selected. For example, at the end of a five-minute period, at the
end of an hour, etc.

Open is the opening price. This is the first price, from which the
period starts—the beginning of the five-minute interval, an hour, etc.

High is the highest price over the period.

Low is the lowest price reached during the period.

All the rest are the particular cases of the above parameters.

As for me, close is the most appropriate. However, EACH of these
parameters is just one of the many prices for the period under review.
There are no more or less important ones among them.

The general EMA trading strategy looks like this:

  1. See where the Moving Average is directed to;
  2. Expect (not try to find) a signal to enter a trade in the MA direction;
  3. Ignore the signals in the opposite direction.

If the indicator delivers signals, the trades in the chart will look
like this:

The flat green line marks the candlestick where we enter a trade.

The flat red line marks the stop loss level. It is higher than the
previous upward candlestick.

Yes, the MA behaves like this sometimes:

These unpleasant things are a part of trading. Any MA trading strategy
aims to make the maximum profits from a successful period displayed by
the indicator rather than making the ANY period successful.

### Differences between АМА and ЕМА

You are not satisfied with standard technical tools, aren’t you? Would
you like to DOWNLOAD, or even to buy, a technical indicator in addition
to SMA and EMA indicator? And the formula must be as complicated as
possible.

So, you are lucky to have such a super-tool. There is a complex MA that
doesn’t only turn ordinary people into super traders; it also adjusts to
a flat and a trend.

Meet Kaufman's Adaptive Moving Average or AMA (KAMA).

I won’t give its calculation formula here; I hope you will forgive me.
You can find it on the Internet in seven seconds if you want.

I will give a brief summary of the AMA main parameters:

 **1.** Efficiency coefficient. It considers the influence of price
noise on the final AMA value. In practice, it reduces the number of
false signals.

It sends a signal when the price goes in the same direction for quite a
time. In this case, it is clear that it is not a price noise but a
directed movement. Unfortunately, the signal appears only AFTER the
movement has already occurred.

 **2.** Smoothing constant. They are fast and long ones. They determine
the indicator behavior both in a trend and in a flat. It is stated that
it is more sensitive during a trend and less sensitive during a flat.

It looks nice when the quote barely creeps in one direction; AMA almost
does not react in any way. But with a V-shaped turn, it is rather late.

What is the difference between the AMA and EMA?

In general, there is no dramatic difference.

Visually, the difference is that AMA displays the price direction
clearer. The slope angles are also more explicit. The angle is either 45
degrees or 0. So, you see the movement strength right away.

It is not so determined by the price movements in a flat as the
[Exponential Moving Average](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/exponential-moving-average.html). It is also an advantage.

I believe that the KAMA is just a try to eliminate the flaws of other MA
versions. AS a result, some drawbacks disappeared, but other ones
emerged. :)

## Moving Average Formula & Calculations

Standard moving averages “stop working” for beginner traders after a
couple of months. Next, they resort to complex indicators based on
moving average exponential and other tools to filter and smoothen false
signals. As a result, they also fail.

It happens because most traders are unwilling to study and explore the
tools they employ in trading. If you know how they work, you will know
[how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) apply them efficiently.

### [Exponential Moving Average](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/exponential-moving-average.html) Formula

I suggest you start from the basics, the EMA exponential moving average
calculation formula:

EMAt = α * Pt + (1 - α) * EMAt-1

α – is the weight coefficient. The higher it is, the more weight the
current data have, and the less weight the old data have.

Pt is the price value in the period t,

EMAt-1 is the indicator value for the previous period.

The weight coefficient is calculated like this:

α = 2 / (N+1)

N — smoothing period.

Therefore, the Exponential moving average with a bigger period will more
consider the old price data. The EMA, with the shorter period, considers
the current situation.

For example, let us calculate the exponential moving average with period
3:

First, we consider the weight coefficient:

Α = 2 / (3 + 1) = 2/4 = 0.5

To make the calculation simpler, let us assume that the previous
indicator value will be 1, and the price for the t period 1.10.

Then EMAt = 0.5 * 1.10 + (1 - 0.5) * 1 = 0.55 + 0.5 = 1.05

In the example, the indicator is directed up, as the current value is
1.05, which is greater than the previous period of 1. So, the tool
indicates the uptrend.

You can do the calculations yourself using your data. I prepared an EMA
calculation template in Excel, which you can download [here][1].

### [Simple Moving Average](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/simple-moving-average.html) Formula

The SMA calculation formula is as follows:

SMA = Sum(Pi)/n

Pi is the price values for the periods analyzed. The number of these
values depends on the number of periods studied.

Sum(Pi) - it is the sum of the price values for the periods under
consideration.

N - number of periods

I will explain the SMA calculation on a simple example, the changes in
bread prices:

2 hours ago (P2) - $1

1 hour ago (P1) - $1.2

Current price (P0) - $1.4

SMA calculation formula for three hours:

SMA (3) =($1,4+$1,2+$1) / 3 = 1,2$

Therefore, the current price ($ 1.4) will be ABOVE the current value of
the SMA indicator ($ 1.2). Congratulations, we have a bullish trend for
bread =)

You can play around with the EMA and SMA calculations yourself to spot
bullish or bearish trends. I attach an [Excel template for calculating
EMA and SMA][1].

### Weighted Moving Average Formula

The formula for the Weighted Moving Average with a period of (3):

WMA (3) = (3P(1) + 2P(2) + 1(P3)) / (3+2+1)

P1, P2, P3 are the prices of the current period, the past one, and the
one before the past, etc.

The WMA calculation is similar to that of the SAM. The difference is
that the WMA is obtained by multiplying each number in the data set by a
predetermined weight and summing up the resulting values.

The greater value is assigned to the current price. It is equal to the
number of periods (3, in our case). Each preceding price has a lesser
(2) and lesser (1) weight. The more distant the past, the less weight
has the price value.

We have: 3 х $1.4 + 2 x $1.2 + 1 x $ 1

Next, we divide the result by the sum of all the factors that we used.
These were 3, 2 and 1:

(3 х $1.4 + 2 x $1.2 + 1 x $ 1) / (3+2+1) = $1.27

The example I have here to demonstrate the WMA calculation method also
indicates a bull trend. The current price is greater than the WMA value.

## Moving Average Interpretation: Reading the Charts

When you use moving averages in trading, you are likely to face all the
traders’ troubles. The negative features are ambiguous signals,
inability to adjust to changing volatility, problems with selecting the
indicator period, and so on. But! If you get over all those troubles and
create a profitable MA trading strategy, you will be able to trade at
any time and in any market.

### Lag Factor

Guys, ANY indicator is lagging. Why? Because the indicator reflects the
price movements, which have already occurred.

The longer is the period chosen for the calculation, the more lagging
will be the indicator.

When the period is short, the indicator will be lagging less, but there
will be more frequent.

Lagging seems to be a problem only when you want to know the future
price movement in advance. The advantage of the MA indicators is the
smoothing of the price data. The bigger is the MA period, the more
significant corrective movements will be ignored.

### Lengths & Timeframes

Let us go through the general aspects:

  * The longer is the MA period, the more global trend it indicates, and the slower is the reaction to the price spikes. It suits trading with the trend.

EMA (30) for the [AUDUSD][2] chart, the timeframe is m5

  * The shorter is the period of the indicator, the more often will the price chart cross it in both directions. Short MA periods suit trading counter the trend when you bet on the price going back to the Moving Average.

The arrows mark the trades’ direction. The crosses mark the points of
the maximum price deviation from the indicator line.

The trade is entered in the MA direction after the price deviates from
it as much as possible.

Depending on the timeframe, the MA will move in a different way, even if
they have the same periods. They are more zigzag-like in the shorter
timeframes and smooth in the longer timeframes.

Compare how the EMA (10) is moving in the timeframes of M5 and D1.

In day trading, you’d better use a longer period and enter in the
direction of the MA you use.

In the middle-term trading, you can set short periods for the Moving
average so that you will have more than 1.5 trading signals in a week.

These [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) provide quite good trading signals, which are often
enough. If you are willing to wait for super trades, you should use long
periods Moving Averages in long-term timeframes. You trade in the trend,
enter in the MA direction = nice trades = positive financial results :)
You may not succeed on the first try.

Another important point is that you can’t master all those Forex
exponential moving averages only by reading reference information;
practice makes perfect.

### Trend Identification

If the price is moving in the same direction as the exponential moving
average and doesn’t cross it, you may consider a trending price
movement.

If the price chart meets the MA too often, there is no clear trend in
the market.

I know that many use the EMA to spot the trend pivot moment. Well, let
us explore two common ways:

  1. Mind the indicator direction
  2. Spot the price crossing the indicator (or expect until the price closes on the other side of the indicator line).

Let us remember how the exponential moving average is calculated:
According to the EMA formula, the past data usually have more weight in
the total result than the current price:

So, the indicator will change its direction when the price makes a sharp
and quite a long movement in the opposite direction. It will indicate:

  * The weakness of the traders drawing the price in the trend direction
  * The strength of the traders drawing the price in the opposite direction

These factors may mean the trend reversal.

As for the price chart crossing the indicator, I don't think it could be
seen as a signal of anything.

For example, if the indicator is going up, and the price is under the
line, it doesn’t mean a bear trend. On the contrary, one could consider
buy trades. If the MA direction hasn’t changed, it means that this price
movement couldn’t reverse the global trend.



The boxes mark the places where the EMA (20) changed its direction.

The arrows mark the places where the price simply crossed ЕМА (20). Most
of them were false.

### Price Crossovers

There are strategies based on the price crossing the EMA. They are good
for trading practice on a demo account. I do not see a logical component
in them.

Yes, if the price crosses the indicator, then there is a price spike
opposite to the previous trend. Yes, we can assume that the price
movement can continue until a certain moment.

For such signals, I recommend choosing a period from 40 and longer to
avoid a huge number of false signals.

In the above chart, I marked with the arrows all signals of potential
trend reversal relative to the EMA (40). The signal is sent when the bar
closes on the side of the indicator that is opposite to the ongoing
trend.

Taking into account numerous false signals when using period 40, imagine
how many false signals are sent by the indicator with a period of 25.

One can also refer to the price closing above /below the moving average
or simply crossing the indicator line. Does it signal the trend
reversal? I suggest you try yourselves and draw a conclusion.

### Double Crossovers

There is a common MA trading strategy when quotes are totally ignored.
It employs two moving averages, fast and slow. This trading approach is
also called Double Crossovers according to John Murphy. It utilizes EMA
+ EMA simultaneously, for example, or SMA + SMA.

The fast MA has a shorter period. The slow MA has a longer period.

If the fast MA breaks through the slow one from above, the trend is
down.

If the crossover is from below, the trend is up.

This tactic is also good to gain practical experience. The signal is
simple and straightforward, with no ambiguity. However, let us analyze
it in more detail.

It takes quite a time for even one MA to reverse. And here, we first
expect a reversal and a crossover after that.

Following such a signal, traders will miss the entire trend movement.

### Support and Resistance

Can an exponential moving average serve as a dynamic support level? It
seems like this line is completely non-existent on the chart, right? But
let's speculate.

Imagine that the price is rising and suddenly begins to fall to its
average value for a certain period. It will look so that the price is
approaching the indicator line.

Let’s take the facts:

  * If the movement is AGAINST the trend, i.e., the move towards the indicator is a potential correction.
  * If the price is rebounding from the EMA, it is going in the TREND DIRECTION.
  * If the indicator doesn’t change the direction, the counter-trend movement is not strong enough.

Based on this, the entry on the price rebound from the indicator line
is:

  * The trade IN THE DIRECTION of the current trend, because there are no reversal signals.
  * An entry presumably AT THE BEGINNING of new momentum in the trend direction, i.e., with a good potential profit.
  * A trade with a relatively short stop loss compared to the expected profit.

The arrows indicate the candlesticks formed in the trend direction after
the price rebound from the indicator. Considering their formation close
to the MA, they are more likely to indicate the end of the correction.
After those bars close, one could consider entering trades in the trend
direction.

Summing up all the above, such a trading approach makes sense. However,
you should remember that the price is influenced by objective factors
rather than by a dynamic support or resistance level presented by the
chart’s moving average.

## Exponential moving average filter

You can use the following tools to filter the EMA signals:

  * Oscillators. I recommend setting a longer period; otherwise, the oscillator will simply duplicate the price chart.

  * Candlestick patterns. You don't have to dig very deep to find all the 100,500 candlestick formations - just look at the pin bar and engulfing.

They both indicate the exhaustion of the ongoing trend and the beginning
of the opposite trend. That is the price rebound. Expect these
candlestick patterns and enter winning trades on the rebound.



> Longer timeframe. Attach the MAs with the same settings, both the
trading timeframe and the longer one. You enter trades in your trading
timeframe according to the MA direction in the longer timeframe. Do you
remember that the exponential moving average indicates the trend
direction? :)

There must be other ways to filter signals, but I do not see any point
in studying million of the methods, because:

What do you, as a trader, want to achieve by filtering signals to buy or
sell? You are likely to be aiming at reducing the number of false
signals. Can you reduce them to 0? No.

What is the idea of signal filtering based on? It is based on the fact
that you can predict the future price movement according to the current
chart structure. Is it real? No.

After going outside the overbought zone, the price can well go back. At
the same time, a long-term movement can emerge after a minor reversal,
which can be “filtered out” and not taken into account.

With that said, filtering will only reduce the number of trades, not
“improve their quality,” as some think. Approximately the same number of
“good” trades will be filtered out for several filtered “bad” trades.
These three methods are enough to gain experience and gradually come to
your own trading approach.

## Moving Average Strategies

You can use exp moving averages in trading any financial instrument;
there are no restrictions. I recommend paying attention to the currency
pairs with the Japanese yen - the trends are smoother there.

Next, I will share the simplest and the most transparent, and so, the
best EMA [trading strategies](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/). These trading methods will help you gain
practical experience and develop your own trading style.

### 200 day exponential moving average

The EMA (200) indicates a global trend. You are meant to buy when the
price is above EMA (200) and sell when it is below.

If you open a position only when the price crosses EMA (200), you will
have about 4-6 trades per year.

What can you do?

  1. Add entry on the indicator rebound (example).
  2. Add entries according to the technical patterns in the direction of the EMA (200). The most relevant patterns will be a Flag and a Triangle pattern; the signals against the trend should be ignored.

From left to right:

Entry on the price rebound from the indicator, entry according to the
triangle pattern, entry according to the flag pattern.

### 3 month moving average

If you want to switch from long-term investing to middle-term trading,
you can consider the trading strategy based on the three-month moving
average

The working timeframe, D1. The analog of the three-month EM will be EMA
with a period of 100.

You enter the trade in the same way as in the previous trading strategy:

  * When the EMA (100) rebounds from below – buy
  * When the EMA (100) rebounds from above – sell

I marked the entry points for the EMA (100) rebound entry to sell (red)
and to buy (green). I also marked the try to enter according to the Flag
pattern, but the movement is too short.

Why don’t we consider the remaining two entries?

  1. The price crosses the EMA (100) much more often than the EMA (200). The price movement after the intersection will be shorter. If you enter trades when the indicator crosses the indicator with a period of 100, there will be too many signals with a small movement potential in relation to the stop-loss value. Such a trade is likely to be losing.
  2. The price is much closer to the EMA (100) than to the EMA (200). If you enter in the direction of the indicator with a period of 100 using technical analysis patterns, then, in most cases, the entry signal will be before the price reversal towards the indicator, i.e., towards your stop loss. (example).

### 8 ema strategy

The most popular variant of the strategy is using the 8-day and 5-day
EMAs.

The strategy aims to receive entry signals when the slow and the fast
moving averages cross. Trading is also carried out on a [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) timeframe,
so it suits intraday traders. The number of trades per year will be much
higher than in previous strategies based on one exponential moving
average.

  * A buy signal appears when the EMA (5) crosses the EMA (8) upward.
  * A sell signal appears when the EMA (5) crosses the EMA (8) from top to bottom.



In the chart, I marked the buy signals (green) and the sell signals
(red). They will not always be followed by a strong trend. But this is a
price to pay for the opportunity to SOMETIMES to enter at the beginning
of the trend.

You enter either buy or sell trade after the candlestick, where the two
EMAs meet, closes. A stop loss is set beyond the signal candlestick.

### 34 ema wave strategy

You need to attach three EMA with different settings to the trading
chart.

  * EMA with a period of 34 applied to “Close” (the closing price of candlesticks)
  * EMA with a period of 34 applied to “High” (to the highest prices of candlesticks)
  * EMA with a period of 34, applied to the “Low” (to the lowest prices of candlesticks)

There will be a channel consisting of three exponential moving averages.
It shows the area within which the price is “in balance.”  When the
price goes outside the channel upside or downside, the price momentum
may develop into a strong trend.

The strategy suggests two ways to enter trades.

1\. You enter a trade after the price closes above the top or below the
bottom of the channel.

  * When the candlestick closes above the top borders, it is a buy signal.
  * When the candlestick closes below the bottom borders, it is a buy signal.

 _ **Note that you enter a trade only when the price goes from the
opposite side of the channel.**_

 _ **Sell when the price was above the upper channel border and then
fell below the bottom border.**_

 _ **Buy is the price was below the lower channel border and then rose
up above the top border.**_

2\. You enter a trade on the rebound of the outer channel border:

  * When the price rebounds up from the top channel border, it sends a buy signal;
  * When the price rebounds down from the bottom channel border, it sends a sell signal; 

I marked the entries on the rebound from the outer channel border.

Red boxes mark the sell trades on the rebound from the lower channel
border. Green boxes mark buy trades on the rebound from the upper
channel border.

The signals will not always be profitable, but it is normal for trend
strategies. For each signal with a good profit, there will be several
less successful entries.

The strategy is recommended for timeframes from H1 and higher.

For more complex analysis, you can consider a timeframe that is 2
degrees longer than the trading one.

If you trade on the H1, analyze the global trend on the D1 timeframe.

If you trade on the H4, analyze the global trend on the W1 timeframe,
and so on.

### Five-period simple moving average

The basic idea of using a five-day moving average is that you get
average price data for a week.

The trading strategy is designed for the D1 timeframe.

Compared to the strategies based on the EMA (200) and EMA(100), there
are more requirements for the entry signal. The following requirements
should be met:

  1. The price breaks out the moving average, and the candlestick closes beyond it (above - for buy trades, below – for sell trades);
  2. The price rolls back to the moving average without the breakout.
  3. The price rebounds from the moving average after the pullback.

Stop-loss is set beyond the pivot point, formed after the price rebound
near the SMA (5).

The strategy doesn’t suggest setting a take profit. To fix the profit,
there is used the trailing stop, the stop loss follows the SMA (5) along
with the trend movement.

If the price does not reach the average value for the last 5 days, up to
SMA (5), and turns towards the breakout, this indicates the
“countertrend” traders. At the same time, there is a signal to enter a
trade in the ongoing trend direction.

Important: it is not recommended to enter trades on Friday - you can get
a counter-directional “gap” on Monday, from which even a well-placed
stop loss won’t save you.

## What is TEMA -  triple exponential moving average

If there exists a triple exponential moving average, we could suppose
that double and single averages exist too. However, that's not right. A
double exponential moving average does exist and is called DEMA, but the
single one doesn't. However, there is a classic exponential moving
average - EMA. So, the Triple [Exponential Moving Average](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/exponential-moving-average.html) incorporates
EMA and DEMA as well so that the value of the successive indicator
smoothes the value of the previous one.

### How to calculate and draw TEMA

Let's start with the TEMA calculation formula:

 **TEMA (i)=3*EMA (i) – 3*EMAofEMA (i) + EMAofEMAofEMA (i).**

EMA (i) is here a normal exponential moving average, EMAofEMA (i) is a
smoothed exponential moving average of EMA (i), and EMAofEMAofEMA (i)
are smoothed exponential moving averages of EMAofEMA (i). Solely the
candle closure price is applied when computing the TEMA value. All's
easy as a trader doesn't have to do anything: the program computes
everything independently. However, it would be good to know how it does
that.

### TEMA vs. EMA

Firstly, download the TEMA indicator and install in on MT4. You can
easily find ТЕМА on the Internet or you can use [my link][3].  Trader
may change only one parameter - the period.

We are going to compare 3 indicators: EMA, DEMA and TEMA. It's worth
noticing that EMA is an exponential version of the Moving Average.

I highly recommend that you have a closer look at EMA if you are not
acquainted with it yet.

So, EMA and other MAs are just variations of the MA indicator. Let's
compare 3 values then: EMA, DEMA and TEMA.

[][4]

You can see the line of price fluctuations and the lines of the 3
indicators on the chart. What's so good about TEMA? It has reacted
faster to an upcoming price movement than the other have. The principle
of the MA work consists in lagging behind the price. The shorter a lag
is the better.

## [Exponential Moving Average](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/exponential-moving-average.html) in Forex: Real Examples

There is a saying: Any trading strategy is good in a good market.
Traders look for always-winning strategies that will work in any market
instead of EXPECTING A GOOD market situation and trading with the
simplest systems.

For trading with the exponential moving average, I see trading
strategies as follows:

  1. Waiting: we are waiting for the price to cross the indicator and quite significantly go beyond it - up or down. The indicator line must be aligned with the price.
  2. Monitoring: When the price returns to the MA, see if it “rebounds” in the direction of the. They do not have to get as close to each other as possible; a rebound in the direction of the trend is enough.
  3. Action: if we see a “confirmation” signal you like, enter in the direction of the rebound.

The green line marks the price bar, where I entered a sell trade. The
red line marks the level of the stop loss. I used the engulfing
candlestick pattern to enter a trade.

### How to use EMA for trading?

When trading in Metatrader 4 and Metatrader 5 terminals, EMA is added
through the Insert menu.

I recommend making the indicator line thicker; this makes it easier to
track its direction.

In my opinion, EMA in MT4 / MT5 can be used in two ways:

1\. It displays the trend direction.

  *  _If the moving average is upward, only buy signals are considered._
  *  _If the moving average is descending - only sell signals._

The indicator serves as a filter for entry signals. It is attached to
the timeframe that is longer than the working chart.

2\. Exponential moving average is used to spot the end of the correction

  *  _If the price is getting close to the indicator, the movement is a correction opposite to the prevailing trend._

In this case, you should set a longer period. It will help you ignore
the signals when the correction is not likely to end.

## Advantages and Limitations of Moving Average Indicators

I can’t define all the advantages and disadvantages of all moving
averages. This is just a tool with specific features for specific
purposes.

Let us explore the advantages and flaws of MA indicators:

 **Parameter**

|

 **Advantage**

|

 **Flaw**  
  
---|---|---  
  
Trend display

|

Clear trend direction

|

Does not tell the future  
  
Variability

|

Many types of MA

|

Different MA can contradict each other.  
  
Trend reversal signals

|

Diversity of signals, a wide choice

|

Traders could see signals as a 100% probability of future trends.  
  
MA [trading strategies](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/)

|

Can be used in trading with the trend and counter the trend

|

Many false signals when the market is not trending  
  
### MA pros

At first, all these price swings seem confusing. There is too much
information, which is difficult for the brain to digest. The MA
indicator will help you to ignore some price swings which make the least
influence on the whole situation.

Depending on the needs, you can choose the most understandable and
logical MA method for you. It will help you preserve the trading system
even during a losing streak.

Moving averages send several types of simple and straightforward signals
for both trend reversal and trend continuation.

The MA indicator can be used for both trending and counter-trending
strategies. It provides many opportunities for creativity, and you can
easily adjust MA [trading strategies](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/) for your trading style.

### MA cons

Any moving average calculation formula considers past price data. The
final result will reflect, to one degree or another, the past dynamics.
MA is only a tool with a specific purpose, not a magic Forex prediction
indicator.

MAs of various types and parameters, in some cases, will contradict each
other, showing a divergence. You should understand why you use
particular settings of the moving average.

Beginner traders often see the signals of a possible trend reversal as
definite and 100% likely. Due to its visual display, the indicator seems
to traders as a barrier for the price, after overcoming which nothing
will prevent it from forming a new trend in the opposite direction.

When the market is not trending, the price will frequently cross the MA
on both sides. Therefore, any strategy based on the MAs will deliver
many false signals during the trading flat.

* * *

## [Exponential Moving Average](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/exponential-moving-average.html) (EMA) FAQ

How to calculate moving average in excel

For manual calculation of exponential (EMA) and simple (SMA) moving
averages, you can use [an excel document with formulas][5].  
  
Enter the desired values ​​in the boxes highlighted by borders.  
  
EMA calculation notes:  
  
EMA Period - the period, the indicator considers. If, for example, you
want to calculate the EMA for 10 days, you need to enter the value
“10”).  
  
Current price value - price value for the most recent period. If you are
trading on [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) charts, this will be today's price value.  
  
The previous EMA value – the indicator value in the prior period.  
  
SMA calculation notes:  
  
Price values ​​- you need to enter each period’s price values, based on
which you want to calculate the indicator. To calculate a simple moving
average for the last 5 hours, you need to enter 5 price values ​​for
each hour.  
  
SMA period - for what period to exist indicator will be calculated. If,
for example, you count SMA for 5 hours, then you need to enter the value
“5”).

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1RwPw66m9arzujWu4XthHmAg3rLVsf2sHA0OYKDCox8s/edit#gid=0
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD
   3. fox-trader.ru/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/TEMA.zip
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/images/uploads/blog/sep/indikator-tema.png?q=75&s=0082a55e4bfb169e3b708f61647744bf
   5. docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ACA9GISifx5F5pbn7uGrq4tUzCj38P4rS-wFToVrXn4/edit#gid=0
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=best-technical-indicators&slug2=moving-averages-ema-indicator&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=best-technical-indicators&slug2=moving-averages-ema-indicator&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus