+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-06"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (6 October 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (6 October 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-06

2020-10-06

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 06.10.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

Gold is still trading under the resistance [1922.4 – 1913.1]. Hold
up/enter middle-term sell trades with a target at Target Zone 2 [1829.4
— 1820.1].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

After the test of the key support to the middle-term uptrend in the zone
of [37.34 – 36.72], the oil price is rising. Expect a buy pattern to
form and enter purchases. The upside target will be at the high of
September 18, and next, at the high of August 18.

An alternative scenario suggests the price break out the key support and
consolidate below. If so, the price will drop to Target Zone 2 [31.14 —
30.52].

Yesterday, oil reached Intermediary Zone [39.53 – 39.26], which is the
key resistance of the short-term downtrend. I suggest focusing on
selling oil according to the pattern with the target at the low of
October 2 + Target Zone [35.97 – 35.42].

It will be relevant to buy oil when the price breaks out IZ. If so, the
short-term oil trend will turn up, and the upside target will be the
upper Target Zone [42.56 — 42.01].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in the zone of [38.45 - 39.53].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [35.97 - 35.42]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold is still trading under the resistance [1922.4 - 1913.1]. Hold
up/enter middle-term sell trades with a target at Target Zone 2 [1829.4
— 1820.1].

The short-term gold trend has turned up, and it contradicts the middle-
term trend. What trend to trade with is up to you.

The target for short-term purchases is Target Zone [1951.0 – 1941.7].
One could enter longs in the support zones, Additional Zone [1892.5 -
1889.9] and Intermediary Zone [1866.3 – 1861.0]. To open buy trades,
there must be a pattern.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Hold down medium-term sell trades entered in the zone of [1922.4 -
1913.1]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [1829.4 - 1820.1]. StopLoss: 1935.0.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD is being corrected up. The middle-term trend remains down.
The key resistance is in the zone [1.1832 – 1.1812], the price is now
approaching it.

I expect the zone test and the reaction of the sellers. When the
resistance is tested, I recommend looking for a sell pattern. The target
is to break through the low of September.

Let us switch to a shorter timeframe and see the short-term trend. It is
upward. The upside target is Target Zone [1.1832 – 1.1812]. Yesterday,
traders reacted to Additional Zone [1.1719 – 1.1714], and there appeared
a buy pattern.

The price is now being corrected a little. If the price tests the new
Additional Zone [1.1748 – 1.1743] in the correction, I will recommend
buying the euro by the market with a stop loss below the zone.

The trend border is now in the zone of [1.1698 – 1.1688]. Until the zone
is broken out, it will not be relevant to sell.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Hold up a part of purchases entered in the zone of [1.1719 - 1.1659]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1832 - 1.1812]. StopLoss: 1.1697.

  2. Buy in Additional Zone [1.1748 - 1.1743]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1832 - 1.1812]. StopLoss: 1.1721.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-06102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-06102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus