+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-29"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=10.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 29, 2020

June 29, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.06.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

Last week, oil buyers were testing the resistance at Target Zone 5
[41.67 – 40.92]. They haven’t broken the zone out and consolidate the
price above. As a result, the price is now being corrected. The
correction target is likely to be the trend key support [33.64 — 32.86].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.06.2020][1]

The hourly timeframe shows that the short-term uptrend continues on
Monday morning. Intermediary Zone [37.54 - 37.15] is being held by
buyers, so, look for a buy pattern. The buy target will be the high of
last week.

There is also an alternative scenario. In this case, the price will
break out IZ and consolidates below at the US session. If so, the local
trend will turn down. We shall enter sell trades on the retest of the
broken-out zone, the sell target will be in the lower Target Zone [33.64
— 32.86].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.06.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [37.54 - 37.15].
TakeProfit: 41.40. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

Gold is trading in the middle-term uptrend. Last week, the price broke
out Target Zone 5 [1757.2 – 1751.2] and consolidated above. The next
upside target is Target Zone 6 [1817.2 – 1811.2]. Enter purchases on the
correction.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.06.2020][4]

The gold short-term uptrend continues. Buyers are now trying to break
out the strong resistance [1771.3 - 1762.2]. If they succeed, the next
buy target will be Gold Zone [1812.5 – 1808.0].

As for trading signals and trading recommendations, I would recommend
entering buy trades after the price tests the trend key support at
[1738.3 – 1734.2] and draws a corresponding pattern.

To consider selling gold, even if in the correction, the price should be
back under the resistance Additional Zone [1770.0 – 1768.0]. In this
case, we shall switch to the shorter timeframes (М30, М15) and look for
bearish reversal patterns to enter sell trades.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.06.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1770.0 - 1768.0]. TakeProfit: 1748.0, Intermediary Zone [1738.3 - 1734.2]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1738.3 - 1734.2]. TakeProfit: 1778.5. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EURUSD doesn’t go below the support at [1.1240 — 1.1222].

It is clear from the chart that the price was corrected up to Target
Zone [1.1368 – 1.1350], tested the zone, and formed a strong down
momentum that was stopped in the zone of [1.1240 – 1.1222]. The price is
now moving up from the support, as there is no sell pattern, but I
expect it to again test Target Zone.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.06.2020][7]

If we analyze the smaller margin zones and study the market sentiment on
the shorter timeframe, we shall see that the euro-dollar is trading down
in the short-term downtrend, whose target is the lower Target Zone
[1.1166 – 1.1148]. The price now being corrected up in the downtrend. It
is getting close to the key resistance Intermediary Zone [1.1290 —
1.1281].

After IZ is tested, I suggest tracking the reaction of sellers. If there
is any reaction at all, we shall expect the sell pattern. If there
emerges a pattern, we shall sell the euro with the target to break
through the low of June 25 and test the lower TZ.

If buyers break out IZ, the short-term trend will turn up.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.06.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:   **

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1290 - 1.1281].
TakeProfit: 1.1192, Target Zone [1.1166 - 1.1148]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.06.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_290620_1.png?w=30&s=b79903d05764c98de2b441a6ce2c4a6f
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_290620_2.png?w=30&s=f669ba885932ee6c6c25e273009eb883
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_290620_1.png?w=30&s=542dd29a8cd8b5a8cbd4694b423224df
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_290620_2.png?w=30&s=049ba9e9938ef09d73bf060d46a0349b
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_290620_1.png?w=30&s=c8aa288c42ea6de21d0337cd9f9d73c9
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_290620_2.png?w=30&s=c195088c44a045143ee591f8c131d9c9
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-29062020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-29062020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_90.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=407910209bdb1ee7a0f0289ef59cd9df