+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-29"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 29.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 29.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 29, 2020

June 29, 2020

Has the dollar crossed the red lines?Dmitri Demidenko

## China retaliates to the U.S. attacks

You can lead the horse to water, but you can’t make him drink. World’s
central banks and governments have spent huge amounts of money to
protect people from the recession caused by the pandemic. A substantial
part of the money was acquired by consumers, and they determine how
quickly the economy will rebound. The euro remained stable amid the drop
of the U.S. stock indexes in the week through June 26, which means that
the euro-area GDP growth will recover sooner than the U.S. growth.
Therefore, one economy will face a V-shaped rebound, another – U-shaped
recovery, and some economies won’t recover at all.

According to the ECB data, household savings rose by €214 billion in the
February-May period and reached an all-time high of €7.3 trillion. In
April, the U.S. personal savings rate jumped to 32.2%. Before Covid-19
in records that date to 1959, that number had never exceeded 17.3% and
had cleared 10% only once since 1995. Although the saving rate was down
to 23.2% in May, the deterioration of the epidemiological situation in
the USA suggests that the Americans won’t spend as much money as the
European consumers.

 **Dynamics of the U.S. personal savings rate**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 29.06.2020][1]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The high savings rate is a problem for the Fed, which should hold the
interest rates low and continue supplying the liquidity to the financial
markets trying to encourage people to spend. The minutes of the last
FOMC meeting should be dovish. This fact, in addition to the expected
positive reading of the U.S. jobs data, Germany’s retail sales, and
China’s PMI, encourages the [EUR/USD][2] bulls. On the other hand, the
drop of the US stock indices presses the major currency pair down.

 **Dynamics of the U.S. job market indicators**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 29.06.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The major benefits of the S&P 500 stopped working in late June. The
number of workers applying for and receiving unemployment benefits has
stabilized, which makes the V-shaped recovery less likely in the US, and
the epidemiological situation in the USA is deteriorating. Furthermore,
Beijing starts to respond to the U.S. attacks. China’s officials say the
U.S. attacks on pain points (Hong Kong, Taiwan) could jeopardize the
purchase of agricultural products and other US exports. The USA should
not cross the red lines. The “phase one” trade deal suggests there
should be a favorable environment for China to meet its obligations.

The number of COVID-19 cases in the world exceeded 10 million, the
number of deaths is more than 500,000. The U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services (HHS) says the coronavirus tests reveal only one case out
of ten, accusing Donald Trump of denying the problem. Another lockdown
will result in a double-dip recession in the USA and the strengthening
of the greenback. So, it is natural that both the S&P 500 and the
[EUR/USD][2] are very responsive to the coronavirus [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/). If the
epidemiological situation improves, the S&P 500 will remain above the
psychologically important level of 3000, and the euro will break out the
resistances at $1.129 and $1.1335.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Has the dollar crossed the red lines?][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/saving-usa-29-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=05daaa6f1f6fde4f111e46901193332c
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/labor-markit-usa-29-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=569658098e8578f77cd8a2edab6b691e
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=has-the-dollar-crossed-the-red-lines&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=has-the-dollar-crossed-the-red-lines&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-29-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=f191fd766e8d9b9707667a14fef68ce0