+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-29"
description = "XAUUSD forecast for 29.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "XAUUSD forecast for 29.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=26.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 29, 2020

June 29, 2020

Gold uptrend continuesDmitri Demidenko

## Gold price fundamental forecast today

### The U.S. dollar supports the gold uptrend

It is really amazing how the Western media are insisting that the major
reason for the gold price surge is the growth of COVID-19 cases in the
U.S. to a record high. I wonder what they will write when the number of
new coronavirus cases starts declining, or the creation of the
coronavirus vaccine will send the US stock indexes up and the US dollar
down. In a positive scenario, the gold price can well be up above $1800
per ounce. The media are likely to find another reason for the
[XAU/USD][1] rally. In Forex, just like in life, ignorance of the law is
no excuse. If you do not know the market laws, you will lose in trading.

The chain “coronavirus- safe-haven demand-gold” could seem reasonable.
However, the most reliable safe-haven asset now is thought to be the
U.S. dollar. So, the gold future price trend depends now on the US
dollar status. In theory, a safe-haven asset is a financial instrument
that is expected to retain or even gain its value during periods of
economic downturn. This definition perfectly describes the greenback and
the Treasuries, the gold price reacts to their trends.

Historically, the strongest negative correlation is between gold and
Treasury real yields. Besides, the risk of another lockdown in the USA
and the W-shaped recovery of the US GDP, like it was in the 1930s, may
press the US bond market rates even lower. Especially since, in this
case, the Fed will have to increase the size of the monetary stimulus.

###  **Dynamics of gold and Treasury real yields**

![LiteForex: XAUUSD forecast for 29.06.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Besides, the Fed’s monetary easing is a bullish factor for the US stock
indexes and the bearish factor for the U.S. dollar. This is evident from
the [XAU/USD][1] drop to 1745, following the crash of the S&P 500 at the
beginning of the trade session on June 26 amid the deterioration of the
epidemiological situation. The stock market is declining, which signals
the growth of the safe-haven demand that is a potential rise of the
dollar. But the greenback isn’t rising, while the pessimistic
projections for the GDP under the current conditions suggest a soon
expansion of the fiscal and monetary stimulus in the USA. The COVID-19
situation in Europe and China is better than in the U.S. Therefore, the
euro-area economy is likely to rebound sooner than the U.S. GDP, which
supports the EUR/USD. As a result, gold very quickly gains back the
positions lost at the beginning of the US Forex session, making one more
step towards $1800 per ounce.

There is obviously some correlation between the coronavirus [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) and the
gold trend, they are like two sides of the same coin. However, the
[XAU/USD][1] is rallying up not because the epidemiological situation is
deteriorating. The gold uptrend could be broken only if the U.S.
economic recovery is W-shaped. In all the other cases, low Treasury
yields, the Fed’s huge monetary stimulus, which is associated with the
dollar weakness, will allow gold to meet my [forecast][3] for $1830 per
ounce. It is still relevant to buy gold on the price falls.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Gold uptrend continues][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/bonds-gold-29-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=e254454b3b01f2a6a9336a4d6350eb0c
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/gold-the-pandemic-starts-and-ends-but-the-liquidity-remains/
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gold-uptrend-continues&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gold-uptrend-continues&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-gold-29-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=fa87fab0f236f516d64865fbefdf0f96