+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-03"
description = "Euro price forecast 3 February 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 3 February 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-03

2021-02-03

Euro got away with a black eye. Forecast as of 03.02.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

Forecasts are good for breakfast but bad for dinner. Gloomy outlook
suggested for the euro area and the euro may eventually play into the
hands of [EURUSD][1] bulls. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up
a trading plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

Central banks’ presidents, current or former, are essential players in
the game of world politics. For instance, Janet Yellen is appointed as
US Treasury secretary. Or Italy’s head of state, President Sergio
Mattarella,  asks Mario Draghi to settle down the country's political
crisis. President Mattarella invited Draghi after Italy’s left-leaning
coalition government broke down and couldn’t put back together again.
Mario Draghi saved the euro, but can he save Rome?

All of Europe has a stake in Italy’s economic fortunes, given its
teetering national debt and its electorate’s mixed feelings lately about
the European Union and the euro. Germany and other EU members agreed to
support a massive European recovery fund largely to prevent Italy from
sliding into a deep crisis. Italy’s economy contracted by nearly 9% in
2020, which is one of the deepest recessions in the eurozone.

### Euro-area economy in Q4 2020

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

If we look at the economic state, the situation for the [EURUSD][1]
bulls is close to despair. In 2020, the euro-area GDP contracted by
6.8%, which is much worse than a 3.5% decline in the USA. By contrast,
China’s economy expanded by 2.3%. The IMF expects that the euro-area
economy in 2021 will be 3.3% less than in late 2019. The US GDP, on the
contrary, will be 1.5% up. Based on the current vaccination rate, the UK
will inoculate 60% of the population by June, the USA – by October,
France and Italy – by summer 2022, Germany and Italy – by 2023.

After all, forecasts are good for breakfast but bad for dinner. Reuters
experts expected the euro-area economy to contract by 1.2% in the fourth
quarter (ECB suggested a 2.2% decline), but the GDP was just 0.7% down.
Germany and Spain surprised by the GDP growth, and Bloomberg analysts
say that the eurozone recession in the first quarter won’t be as severe
as it was earlier expected (4%). The eurozone economy adjusts to
pandemic and lockdowns, the GDP downturn is not as deep as it was in
April-June (11.7%), so the euro-area economy got away with a black eye.

History knows many examples when pessimistic forecasts, in fact,
supported the currency. For instance, at the end of 2016, few believed
that the eurozone would outpace the United States in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of economic
growth the next year, and it did so in 2017, which led to a 14% rise in
[EURUSD][1]. Let's not forget that the euro-area and China’s economies
are related: the better is China’s economic performance, the better is
for the export-led eurozone and the euro. German Chancellor Angela
Merkel promised to vaccinate every German by the end of summer, which
should encourage the euro buyers.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

I do not recommend catching falling daggers. The excessive market
pessimism suggests that the euro is undervalued, and the bulls can still
restore the uptrend. One could consider buy trades if the [EURUSD][1]
goes up above 1.208. Level 1.195 may not stop the bears. Meanwhile, hold
down the short trades entered [in late January][2] but be ready to turn
up at any moment.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/the-fed-failed-mission-eurusd-forecast-as-of-28012021/