+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-03"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (3 February 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (3 February 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-03

2021-02-03

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 03.02.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Several important reports on the eurozone economic indicators are
published today, which could push the euro to a further decline.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The oil is trying to consolidate above Target Zone 4 [54.72 - 54.21]. If
successful, the next growth target will be Target Zone 5 [59.82 -
59.31]. The trend key support is shifting to the zone of [50.62 -
50.17].

It is profitable to enter new long trades on the correction to key
support.

The short-term oil trend remains up. Now traders are trying to break out
the resistance Target Zone 3 [55.00 - 54.53]. If the price consolidates
above the zone, it will be possible to assume further growth to the Gold
Zone [57.14 - 56.90].

It is profitable to enter new trades according to the pattern on the
correction at strong support zones: Additional Zone [54.02 - 53.91] and
Intermediary Zone [52.89 - 52.66]. Drivers for oil maybe today's US
crude oil inventories data at 17:30 (GMT +2).

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [54.02 - 53.91]. TakeProfit: 55.12. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [52.89 - 52.66]. TakeProfit: 55.12. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold is trading in the sideways trend between the levels of 1859 and
1818. To work in the medium term, wait for the price to exit this zone.
According to the margin zones, the trend is up.

The short-term trend is also up. Now the price is trading in the zone of
good buy prices between the levels of 1850 and 1820. Today, wait for a
buy pattern and open long trades according to the pattern with the
target at the last week's high.

A breakout of the trend key support [1825 - 1820] will lead to a trend
reversal. In this case, the target for sales will be the lower Target
Zone [1775 - 1765].

Today, the driver for the growth or fall of prices will be ADP report on
the US nonfarm payrolls.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Open buy positions according to the pattern in [1850 - 1820]. TakeProfit: 1875. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell when the support level [1825 - 1820] is broken out. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1775 - 1765]. StopLoss: 1846.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD has broken out the support [1.2062 - 1.2053] in the medium-
term chart. This downward movement fits within the medium-term downtrend
that was identified earlier. The next target of the price fall is Target
Zone 2 [1.1981 - 1.1962].

It is profitable to look for short trades on correction at strong
resistance levels in the chart of a shorter timeframe.

Several important reports on the eurozone economic indicators are
published today: the composite PMI from Markit, services PMI, the
consumer price index. These drivers could push the euro to a further
decline, as the short-term trend remains down.

Now the traders are trying to break out the Target Zone [1.2029 -
1.2013]. If successful, the next target will be Gold Zone [1.1949 -
1.1941].

It is profitable to look for short trades at strong resistance. The
closest level is the Additional Zone [1.2055 - 1.2051].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.2055 - 1.2051]. TakeProfit: 1.2013. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. In case of breakout of the level of 1.2055 - buy. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1.2099 - 1.2091]. StopLoss: 1.2034.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-03022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-03022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus