+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-15"
description = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week February 15"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week February 15"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-15

2021-02-15

Medium-term forecast for five cryptocurrencies as of 15.02.2021Roman
Onegin

I welcome my readers!

I have prepared a medium-term cryptocurrency forecast based on Elliott
wave analysis of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS, and Ripple. I offer
trading signals for each cryptocurrency pair.

Major cryptocurrency pairs, including Bitcoin and Ethereum, are likely
to continue rising this week after the short bearish corrections finish.

The article covers the following subjects:

##  **Elliott wave Bitcoin analysis**

The BTCUSD market is forming an uptrend. There is forming a large
impulse composed of the sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. The first four sub-waves of
this impulse have completed, and there is unfolding sub-wave 5. Wave 5
is also an impulse, which is about to end soon. Let us see the structure
of wave 5 in more detail in the eight-hour timeframe.

Within the impulse wave 5, there is unfolding the final leg, the bullish
wave [5], as a simple five-wave impulse (1)-(2)-(3)-(4)-(5). There is
developing the final motive wave (5), where four sub-waves out of five
have completed. The price should decline slightly in the zigzag-shaped
correction [4], which is an element of wave 5. Next, the Bitcoin price
should start rising in impulse [5] to a level of 54300.00, as it is
outlined in the chart.

### Trading plan for [BTCUSD][1] for the week:

Sell 47286.50, TP 43110.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ethereum analysis**

Like in the previous trading weeks, the ETHUSD is forming a large trend.
There is developing the global simple zigzag, composed of the sub-waves
A-B-C. Wave A is a simple five-wave impulse, and wave B is a correction,
ended as a triple zigzag, wave C is also an impulse, which is still
developing. The price is currently rising in the final wave [5],
composed of the sub-waves (1)-(2)-(3)-(4)-(5). Let us explore the chart
in more detail in the eight-hour timeframe.

The upward impulse wave [5] is about to end soon. Its first four parts
have completed. There is now developing the final impulse wave (5).
There have finished forming the triangle pattern in correction 4; next,
the price has resumed rising in wave 5. There should be a short decline
soon in the corrective wave [4] to a level of 1570.67. Afterward, the
market should resume growing in wave [5] to a level of 1930.00, as it is
outlined in the chart.

### Trading plan **[ETHUSD][2] **for the week:

Sell 1759.62, TP 1570.67

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Litecoin analysis**

Litecoin continues to form a large upward simple zigzag, composed of the
three major sub-waves A-B-C. In March 2020, the market finished the deep
corrective wave B as a downward triple zigzag. Next, the price turned up
and started rising in the impulse. There have completed corrective waves
[2] and [4], and the motive [1] and [3]. Let us study the most recent
chart section in more detail in the H8 hour timeframe.

After the bearish correction [4] finished as a double zigzag
(w)-(x)-(y), the price has started rising sharply in the new impulse
wave. The first small sub-waves (1) and (2) must have ended, and the
impulse wave (3) should soon end at a level of around 252.00. This is
the high made by the upward linking wave [X]. (This wave is visible in
the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) timeframe). One could enter purchases in the current
situation.

### Trading plan for **[LTCUSD][3]**  for the week:

Buy 204.47, TP 252.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave EOS analysis**

The EOSUSD is forming the global corrective wave B as a downward zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The first three legs of this zigzag have completed.
The market is forming the second linking wave [X] as an upward double
zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y), which could end soon. The expected target where wave
[X] should end is level 5.83. At this level, wave [X] will reach 61.8%
Fibonacci level of wave [Y]. Let us see the structure of the most recent
chart section in the H8 timeframe.

There is developing the double upward zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y), with the
bullish wave (Y) unfolding inside. The (Y) wave is a simple zigzag
A-B-C, where impulse A and the correction B have completed. Impulse wave
C is still unfolding. The market may have completed the bearish
correction [4], so the price should be rising in the final wave [5] to a
level of 5.83. One could enter buy positions in the current situation.

### Trading plan for **[EOSUSD][4]**  for the week:

Buy 4.69, TP 5.83

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ripple analysis**

The XRPUSD market continues forming a corrective pattern, composed of
three sub-waves A-B-C. The [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) chart displays the final section of the
bullish impulse A and the bearish corrective wave B, which is still
developing. The B correction is unfolding as a triple zigzag. There is
forming the initial element of the final sub-wave [Z]. Let us see its
structure in the eight-hour timeframe.

The [Z] wave is likely to end as a double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y). The first
two legs, the sub-waves (W) and (X), have completed, and the final
motive wave (Y) is still forming. The (Y) could end up as a complex
structure of a double zigzag W-X-Y. Over the next few weeks, there
should be developing the upward corrective wave [B], which is an element
of the W wave. The [B] wave could end at a level of around 0.670.

### Trading plan for **[XRPUSD][5]** for the week:

Buy 0.564, TP 0.670

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-15022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-15022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus