+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-15"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (15 February 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (15 February 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-15

2021-02-15

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 15.02.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

The strong oil prices' growth at the end of last week allowed traders to
reach another target within the medium-term uptrend.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Last week, oil reached Target Zone 5 [59.82 - 59.31], as we expected.
The medium-term trend remains up. Now the bulls are trying to break out
the resistance. If successful, the next growth target will be Target
Zone 6 [64.92 - 64.41].

The short-term trend is up. Now the price is trading at highs. Traders
are trying to consolidate above Target Zone 4 [59.51 - 59.05], and it
looks like they are succeeding. The growth target is Gold Zone 4 [61.54
- 61.32].

For further purchases, a correction is necessary to get the opportunity
to enter trades at favorable prices.

Based on this, oil purchases at current prices do not look profitable.
The nearest supports, from which it is profitable to look for new
purchases, are Additional Zone [59.64 - 59.53] and Intermediary Zone
[58.51 - 58.28].

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [59.64 - 59.53]. TakeProfit: 60.71. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [58.51 - 58.28]. TakeProfit: 60.71. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

The medium-term gold downtrend continues. Its main target is Target Zone
2 [1759 - 1749]. Last week, traders did not manage to break out the
resistance zone [1840 - 1830]. It is profitable to hold sell trades and
take a part of the profits at February's low.

The gold short-term trend is down. Last week, traders tested the trend
line [1845 - 1840] and failed to break out this zone. Thus, we saw their
reaction. As part of this reaction, the level 1832 was broken out, and
the “1-2-3” pattern was formed. On Friday, there was a good entry point
according to the pattern.

Today, the bearish strategy is profitable: hold sales according to the
pattern with a stop above February 11's high.

Alternative scenario suggests that the positions should be closed with a
stop loss, and the price should break out the Intermediary Zone. In this
case, the short-term trend will reverse up, and the upper Target Zone
[1906 - 1895] will become the target for purchases.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Hold sales entered according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1845 -
1840]. TakeProfit: 1785, Target Zone [1775 - 1765]. StopLoss: 1848.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

EUR/USD bulls try to break out the medium-term downtrend key resistance
[1.2128 - 1.2112]. Traders still hold the zone. The formation of a sell
pattern near this zone will allow considering new euro short trades.

The short-term uptrend was developing last week. Within this trend, the
Target Zone [1.2128 - 1.2112] has been reached. Now traders are trying
to break out the resistance and consolidate above the zone. If
successful, the next target will be Gold Zone [1.2200 - 1.2192].

Also, last week, the zone of ​​good buy prices between the Additional
Zone [1.2109 - 1.2105] and the Intermediary Zone [1.2069 - 1.2061] was
tested. The price didn’t break out the zone, and traders have reacted
accordingly. The target of the price growth is February 11's high.

As for new deals-trades for today, purchases remain the priority. Do not
open longs at current prices because the price is trading near the
highs. It makes sense to wait for the highs update, rebuild the
supports, and start searching for buy entry points at new key levels.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Hold long trades entered in the zone of [1.2109 - 1.2061]. TakeProfit: 1.2148. StopLoss: at the breakeven.

  2. If there are no open positions, stay out of the market.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-15022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-15022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus