+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-14"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 14.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 14.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=26.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 14, 2020

May 14, 2020

Dollar hasn’t got to the endDmitri Demidenko

## Fed says more stimulus is necessary, Congress and the White House
should authorize more aid

History repeats itself. The [EUR/USD][1] soared to the top of figure 8
at the European Forex session and dropped to its bottom at the US
session on May 12. The story repeated on the next day. Jerome Powell’s
speech increased the pessimism about the V-shaped recovery of the US
economy, so, the S&P 500 dropped, which encouraged the dollar bulls. The
euro, which is also pressed down by the euro-area domestic problems,
quickly rolled down, and I doubt that it could rally up to the top of
figure 8 again.

Coronavirus may turn the split between the rich North and the poor South
in the euro area into an economic gap, which sets the euro’s existence
in danger. The EU leaders can’t find a compromise on the fiscal
stimulus, there is a possibility of a constitutional crisis, and the
Brexit issues haven’t been settled down. These factors resulted in an
unprecedented rise in the economic uncertainty in the euro area. The
euro has become the most vulnerable G10 currency since the peak of
market shocks in mid-March.

 **Dynamics of economic uncertainty in the euro area**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 14.05.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

 **Performance of G10 currencies**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 14.05.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The [EUR/USD][1] uptrend was supported in early May by the US stocks,
however, the drop of the US stock market will strengthen the greenback.
The excitement about the $3-trillion fiscal stimulus and the
$2.9-trillion monetary stimulus, which should support a quick rebound of
the US economy, is gradually fading out. According to the Goldman Sachs
survey, most executives of the companies whose securities are included
in the S&P 500 calculation base do not expect the V-shaped recovery of
the US GDP. The median gauge of 64 economic experts polled by the Wall
Street Journal suggests that the US economy will contract by 6.6% in
2020 and won’t reach the pre-crisis level until at least 2022.

US Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin says he expects the second quarter
to be "pretty bad" but the next quarter will be better, and the US will
be back to having a great economy in 2021. Jerome Powell expresses the
same ideas. He says the US economy will be recovering slower than it was
expected, and Congress should provide additional financial aid to
support the previous achievements. The previous economic assistance is
not the end. However, the Fed’s chairman shot down the idea of cutting
the Fed's short-term interest rate, which is now near zero, into
negative territory, as Donald Trump had asked. Powell says the Fed has
good monetary expansion tools, and the negative rates are not what the
FOMC is looking at now.

There is hardly any chance of the V-shaped recovery of the US economy,
and the S&P 500 has been driven too high by the euphoria. Therefore, the
buyers of the US stocks are taking the profits, exiting the longs. The
drop in the US stock indexes pushes the [EUR/USD][1] down. If the price
breaks out the support at 1.077-1.0775, it should continue falling
towards the bottom of the consolidation range 1.065-1.115 that I defined
in [mid-April][4].

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar hasn’t got to the end][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/uncertainty-euro-area-14-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=eb10c1b3a3a882556ace2e58199df50f
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/g10-14-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=459256bc59703f835c9925cbeb1e2b06
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/saving-private-euro/
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-hasnt-got-to-the-end&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-hasnt-got-to-the-end&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-14-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=473eac638af59d8019fbe123600a7fe7