+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-14"
description = "GBP/USD forex forecast for 14.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "GBP/USD forex forecast for 14.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 14, 2020

May 14, 2020

Pound was hit by a trainDmitri Demidenko

## The medicine may be more dangerous than the illness. This is not the
only problem of the GBP/USD

While the US continues boosting its fiscal stimulus, the UK weighs the
risks that the medicine could do more harm than the illness. The UK took
second place in the number of deaths from coronavirus. Therefore, the
Treasury extended the UK scheme to pay wages of workers on leave because
of coronavirus will be extended to late October. According to MUFG, this
scheme already costs £49 billion, and its extension will increase the
spending by another £30 billion. Taking into account the entire
financial stimulus package, the budget deficit, according to the UK
government, will increase from £55 billion to £337 billion. At best. At
worst, it will be as much as £516 billion. The UK will need to raise
taxes, which suggests the GDP recovery will be L-shaped. And this is not
the only problem of the pound.

In the first quarter, the UK economy contracted by 5.8%, in the second
quarter, according to the BoE forecast, it will drop by another 25%,
which will be the worst drop over the past 300 years. The British Retail
Consortium reported a 19.1% drop Y-o-Y in total sales in April. This is
the biggest fall since it began its monthly index in 1995. According to
Financial Times source familiar with the issue, Boris Johnson’s
government (likely, under Donald Trump’s pressure) is going to lower
tariffs on the imports of the US farm products, which will widen the
UK’s current account deficit.

The problems of foreign trade, growth of the UK public debt, UK weak
economy discourage the foreign [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s from buying the UK securities,
which increases the differential in the premiums for put and call
[options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) on the sterling to 220 basis points (the average value in 2020
is 150 basis points). This sets the [GBP/USD][1] bulls back.

 **Dynamics of the UK GDP**

![LiteForex: GBP/USD forex forecast for 14.05.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

 **Dynamics of pound’s risk reversals**

![LiteForex: GBP/USD forex forecast for 14.05.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

In addition to the problems of the economy, the political environment in
the UK is also unfavorable amid the Brexit issues, which haven’t yet
been settled. So, the pound’s drop looks natural. Until recently, the
sterling was supported by the US stocks, however, the little chance of
the V-shaped economic recovery in the USA resulted in the S&P 500 sell-
offs, drawing [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s’ focus back to the UK domestic problems.

Even the [GBP/USD][1] surge after the BoE meeting in May hasn’t
increased the number of pound’s buyers. It was more like a” dead cat
bounce”, a popular Forex pattern when bulls, being too weak, try to
break the downtrend but fail. Yes, only two MPC members out of nine
voted for the extension of the UK’s QE by £100 billion, however, Andrew
Bailey and Ben Broadbent suggested that the BoE could implement
additional easing measures.

Therefore, it will always catch up with you in the end, as the proverb
says. In early May, the sterling looked too strong, which allowed the
traders, who followed the [recommendations][4] to sell the [GBP/USD][1]
from the levels of 1.235 and 1.229, to make profits. You can join
successful Forex traders and boost up your deposit by going short on the
pound using the LiteForex [convenient services][5].

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

![Pound was hit by a train][8]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/gdp-uk-14-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=57a0582df974dba9b30fccd8fd57eb06
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/risk-reversal-pound-14-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=0c8e940c045e1660f91d37b60d9639e7
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/pound-is-not-lucky-in-may/
   5. my.liteforex.com/
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-was-hit-by-a-train&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-was-hit-by-a-train&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-gbpusd-14-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=d8dd54ff3021347ce904f76b20bcd5c2