+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-26"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 26.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 26.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 26, 2020

May 26, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 26.05.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

Oil price is getting close to the major target in the middle-term
uptrend, Target Zone 4 [34.17 - 33.42]. If it is broken out, the next
target will be Target Zone 5 [41.67 — 40.92].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 26.05.2020][1]

The short-term trend is up. Today, the price has broken through the
local high. The price is now getting close to the next buy target,
Target Zone 4 [34.17 - 33.42].

Sooner or later, there should start a deep correction towards the trend
key support that is now in the zone of [28.60 – 28.15]. When it happens,
we shall enter oil purchases with a target at the local high.

It will be relevant to sell only when the price breaks out Additional
Zone.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 26.05.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

  * Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [30.85 - 30.63]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 4 [34.17 - 33.42]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  * Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [28.60 - 28.15]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 4 [34.17 - 33.42]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

According to the margin zones methodology, gold is trading in the
middle-term uptrend. The price will hardly test the key support [1673.6
– 1664.4] soon.

However, there could be a chance to sell gold in the correction unless
the resistance Target Zone 5 [1757.2 — 1751.2] is broken out.

If you would like to sell gold, there is a good chance to do it.
[Open][4] an account with LiteForex forex and open sell positions on the
[precious metal][5].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 26.05.2020][6]

Gold short-term trend is still up. Last week, the price tested the trend
key support, Intermediary Zone [1719.3 – 1714.8]. It was held, and the
price started rising.

However, there is not a pattern to buy in the key support zone. On the
contrary, the strong intraday resistances are held down and the
important highs and lows are moving down in the hourly chart.

In this situation, I expect the price to break through the low of last
week and IZ retest. Next, we shall see if the price breaks out the
support.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 26.05.2020][7]

 **[XAUUSD][5] Trading ideas for today:  **

Hold down/enter sell trades according to the pattern in Additional Zone
[1742.4 - 1740.1]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1719.3 - 1714.8].
StopLoss: above 1745.0.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EURUSD is trading flat between levels 1.0985 and 1.0783. In the
medium-term timeframe chart, the price has tested the resistance level.
Therefore, I recommend entering sell trades down to the support zone.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 26.05.2020][8]

The short-term trend turned down via Intermediary Zone breakout and
consolidation below. The sell target is now the lower Target Zone
[1.0826 – 1.0808].

I recommend entering shorts on the correction at about 50% Fibonacci
level of the downward momentum that occurred in the past few days. This
level is within the zone of good sell prices according to the margin
zones methodology.

It is not relevant to buy the euro now.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 26.05.2020][9]

 **[EURUSD][10] Trading ideas for today: **

Enter sell trades at level 1.0939. TakeProfit: 1.0870, Target Zone
[1.0826 - 1.0808]. StopLoss: 1.0965.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][11]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][12] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 26.05.2020][13]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_260520_1.png?w=30&s=caf4a77718b3174450bae1ebf00d584e
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_260520_2.png?w=30&s=56b52390e1db56db31a1f77a021523cf
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. my.liteforex.com/
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_260520_1.png?w=30&s=1d181651e25297c55ec026faa665d0ce
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_260520_2.png?w=30&s=86eab31b8db7032e1ad27b4e31c86ff9
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_260520_1.png?w=30&s=ac1e60005e8b63cd059d9e1fddc70fa6
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_260520_2.png?w=30&s=7d66bd03d23ef0449912c542f85f0f3a
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   11. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-26052020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-26052020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_83.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=bb884351eca9e9581b3a4bc91eb7e185