+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-26"
description = "USD/JPY forecast for 26.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "USD/JPY forecast for 26.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 26, 2020

May 26, 2020

The corridor is too narrow for the yenDmitri Demidenko

## Will the USD/JPY go outside the trading range of 106-109?

When people go outside, and the lockdown is in the past, the yen seems
to face problems. An increase in the global risk appetite amid the
reopening of the global economies and the hopes for the global GDP
rebound, the demand of Japan’s [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s for overseas securities also
grows. This forces the capitals to go from Japan to the USA and Europe,
the [USD/JPY][1] and [EUR/JPY][2] start rising. This is usually so, but
not this time. The U.S. dollar has stuck in the trading range of
¥106-¥109 since late March and will hardly exit it soon.

In theory, the lowest Shinzo Abe's poll ratings since taking up his
second spell in office in 2012, mass protests in Hong Kong, the US-China
trade conflict, and the concerns about the second wave of COVID-19
should support the high demand for safe havens, including the Japanese
yen. In fact, I don’t believe that any of the yen’s advantages are no
longer relevant. Japan's Prime Minister has many times proved to be
effective. Donald Trump’s criticism of China also has its limits. If the
US President goes too far, the US economy will suffer, which is the
least desired ahead of the elections. The risks of a new wave of the
pandemic are compensated with the [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) about developing coronavirus
medicines and vaccines.

However, the major reason for the [USD/JPY][1] trading flat is a change
in the US dollar’s status. Before the Fed had cut the interest rate from
1.75% to 0.25% in March, it could be called one of the riskiest G-10
currencies. The Treasury yields were higher than that of their world's
peers, and the greenback’s growth following the US stocks’ rally used to
be a norm before the pandemic. The USD/JPY was moving in sync with the
S&P 500, and the reason for this was the willingness of Japan’s
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s to buy more profitable US assets.

Since late March, everything has radically changed. The US stocks’ rally
pressed the [USD/JPY][1] down and vice versa. The situation has
stabilized in May, which has sent the pair into the consolidation range
of 106-109.

 **Dynamics of USD/JPY and S &P 500**

![LiteForex: USD/JPY forecast for 26.06.2020][3]

 _Source: Trading Economics._

What’s next? I believe both the dollar and the yen have their flaws. It
suggests, at best, the widening of the trading corridor, but not the
real trend. The expansion of the Fed’s balance, too fast growth of
debts, the US twin deficit (budget and foreign trade) are the bearish
factors for the greenback. The yen, however, will be pressed down by the
capital outflow from Japan to the USA and Europe. As a result, it makes
sense to sell if the [USD/JPY][1] goes up towards the top of the
consolidation range of 106-110 defined in[ mid-April][4]. Also, traders
have a good chance to make a double-bank shot. You can make profits and
win a dream house, a brand new car and other prizes the [LiteForex Dream
Draw][5] devoted to its 15th anniversary.

I also consider the idea to buy the [EUR/JPY][2], the [AUD/JPY][6], and
the [NZD/JPY][7] with targets at 121, 74.75-74.95 and 70.2-70.55 if the
Chinese economic rebound is V-shaped, and there is not a new round of
the US-China trade war.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][8]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][9] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USDJPY in real time mode

![The corridor is too narrow for the yen][10]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDJPY&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURJPY&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/usdjpy-spx-26-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=aa000a906bc031907bf67b83ba0923ae
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/yen-was-spurred/
   5. www.liteforex.com/contests/dream-draw/
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDJPY&returnUrl=true
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NZDJPY&returnUrl=true
   8. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=the-corridor-is-too-narrow-for-the-yen&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=the-corridor-is-too-narrow-for-the-yen&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-usdjpy-26-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=567b0669a72d3f52ee4f0c7e6b0f1974