+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-19"
description = "Is the EURUSD trend broken? Or, will the correction end soon?"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Is the EURUSD trend broken? Or, will the correction end soon?"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-19

2021-02-19

EURUSD: where do you go, my lovely? Review as of 19.02.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

Is the [EURUSD][1] trend broken? Or, will the correction end soon?

## To buy or not to buy - that's Forex traders' permanent question

Those who pretend furiously to know how much the euro will cost relative
to the USD at the end of 2021 must be charlatans. All forecasts are
nothing more than assumptions, and they can be corrected according to
varying circumstances. The winner in Forex is the one who can adapt to a
new reality. Thus, treasury yields growing at the beginning of 2020
canceled ambitious expectations that the [EURUSD][1] would reach the
value of 1.25 in Q1.

The future looked transparent at the end of 2020. Most banks and
investment companies said we should dispose of US dollars as fast as we
could, considering mass vaccination, herd immunity, the victory over
COVID-19, and fast global economic growth. However, their voices were
too loud and numerous not to sound doubtful.

> \- I heard you divorced after your first month of marriage.

>

> \- You can't even imagine... All her fingers turned out to be middle
fingers!

At the beginning of the year, the dollar grew stronger on rising bond
yields and a slow vaccination campaign in Europe. Finally, some analysts
changed opinion radically, asserting that the [EURUSD][1] uptrend had
been broken; some of them stayed faithful to the previous view, on the
contrary. The euphoria of an upcoming victory over the pandemic faded
out gradually as vaccine supplies weren't smooth and new COVID-19
strains showed up. But did everything really turn upside down?

The number of new coronavirus cases has been decreasing for five
straight weeks worldwide. Just like the number of new hospitalizations
and deaths. Do we need to thank vaccines for that? Or lockdowns? Or
seasonal pandemic slump? Or the total of those reasons? The fact is we
can defeat COVID-19, so there's still hope for the global GDP's steep
growth. And there's an understanding that the [EURUSD][1]'s fall is just
a correction.

Unfortunately for euro bulls, something is rotten in their state. The
divergence in US and EU economic growths and the long rally of bond
yields are bullish factors for the USD. Is the uptrend broken? For the
last time, No! The winners are those who adapt to new conditions. The
faster the US economy grows, the better the global economy feels, the
more chances to recover the export-oriented Eurozone has. China, the
States, and Europe are in the same boat now. The greenback lost the
support of anti-globalist Trump, and that favors the [EURUSD][1] bulls.

Treasury yields will most likely continue growing as long as the US
prefers spending money today and paying the debt tomorrow. The Americans
behave reasonably: there are two days in the whole year when you can't
do anything. Yesterday and Tomorrow. So, today is the right day for
taking action. Also, if you want to win, setting rules isn't enough. You
need to change the rules all the time. It's the Fed and the US Treasury
that change the rules. And why should they need a strong dollar?

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true