+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-24"
description = "Australian dollar price forecast 24 February 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Australian dollar price forecast 24 February 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-24

2021-02-24

Aussie gains ground. Forecast as of 24.02.2021Dmitri Demidenko

In 2020 the [AUDUSD][1] bulls were supported by China, effective control
over the pandemic, and faith in improving relations between Washington
and Beijing after Joe Biden's victory. In 2021 the Aussie has new
allies. Which ones? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a
trading plan.

## Monthly Australian dollar fundamental forecast

80 US cents - awesome, 70 US cents - ok, 60 US cents - country has some
problems, or something important is happening abroad. This is what
Australians think about the AUDUSD rate. Judging by the fact that the
[AUDUSD][1] prices are approaching level 0.8, the Australian population
is in seventh heaven. However, no matter how good it was for the whole
nation, there will still be dissatisfied people. The Reserve Bank may
not like the 40% rally of the Aussie since the March low, but even the
RBA's officials admit the rally is logical.

If in 2020 the Aussie grew due to the strength of the Chinese economy,
effective control over the pandemic, and hopes for improving relations
between Washington and Beijing. In 2021, its main allies are rumors
about the start of a super-cycle of commodities. The massive monetary
and fiscal stimulus has created a reflation environment in which
commodity market assets have a favorable position. Is it any surprise
that the Bloomberg Commodity Spot Index has soared to its highest level
since March 2013?

### Dynamics of the commodity market index

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The indicator tracks the dynamics of 23 assets that Australian companies
sell. It includes oil, copper, and iron ore. Demand for raw materials is
expected to grow faster than supply, widening deficits as producers cut
investments due to lockdowns.

The RBA is well aware of this and states that if it were not for its
ultra-easy monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), the Aussie rate would have been
significantly higher, reflecting the dynamics of commodity market
assets. Looking at the [AUDUSD][1] rapid rally, it becomes clear that
the central bank needs to accelerate inflation, which will make its
position extremely difficult. However, there have been worse times. For
example, in 2011-2012, the Australian dollar was more expensive than
USD.

The strengthening of the Aussie, which slows down inflation and limits
sovereign export opportunities, is not the RBA's only problem. Most
likely, Philip Lowe and his colleagues are not happy with the rapid
rally in Australian bond yields, which may hinder the economic recovery.
However, similar difficulties are typical for other central banks, and
the change in the rate spread on the Australian and US debt markets will
create a headwind or a tailwind for the Aussie buyers.

### Dynamics of [AUDUSD][1] and differential of Australian and US bond
yields



 _Source: Bloomberg._

Judging by the fact that the Brent $100/b forecasts will not surprise
anyone, the commodity market's super-cycle will continue to impact the
[AUDUSD][1] bulls positively. Perhaps the only thing that could trigger
a deep correction is [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/) disappointment over the thaw in US-China
relations. Beijing called on Washington to lift import duties and not
interfere in China's internal affairs. Would Joe Biden consider this
rude?

### Monthly [AUDUSD][1] trading plan

In general, the rates for buying [AUDUSD][1], which I mentioned [in
March][2], work out regularly. The 0.79 target, set [in early
January][3], has been reached, and the level of 0.82 is next in line. My
advice is to buy the pair.

## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/aussie-meets-qe/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/aussie-got-one-of-the-standing-ovations-forecast-as-of-05012021/