+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-24"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (24 February 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (24 February 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-24

2021-02-24

Short-term analysis for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 24.02.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

The oil price has returned below level 61.93. Going beyond this
resistance is considered a false breakout.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The oil price has returned below level 61.93. Going beyond this
resistance is considered a false breakout. To form a corrective pattern,
traders need to break out the support of 60.61. This will allow
considering the oil sales with the first target in the zone of [58.39 -
57.94].

The short-term trend is up. The key support [60.66 - 60.43] has been
reached yesterday. This caused traders' reaction, and the price momentum
reached levels [61.86 - 61.74]. However, the price was down at the
opening of the trading session today.

While the support [60.66 - 60.43] is holding, purchases according to the
pattern are in the short-term priority. The price needs to break out the
level of 61.93 to form a pattern.

To reverse the trend, it is required to consolidate the price below the
level of 60.43 at the US trading session. This will allow considering
oil sales with the target at Target Zone [58.39 - 57.94].

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [60.66 - 60.43]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [63.54 - 63.09]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. If the price breaks out the support [60.66 - 60.43], sell. TakeProfit: Target Zone [58.39 - 57.94]. StopLoss: beyond the local high.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

The gold price is being corrected up, following the decline over the
past two weeks. Traders are testing the resistance [1821 - 1815]. If the
price doesn't break out the resistance upside, it will go down to Target
Zone 2 [1759 - 1749].

The short-term is down. Intermediary Zone [1821 - 1815] was reached
yesterday. The price didn’t break out the zone. Selling priority
remains. The targets will be the lower Target Zone [1775 - 1765] and the
last week's low. The breakout of the support level of 1801 will form the
“1-2-3” pattern.

A breakout of level 1821 and the closing of the US trading session
higher are required for the trend reversal and gold purchases. In this
case, look for long trades with the target at the upper Target Zone
[1881 - 1870].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1821 - 1815].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1775 - 1765], 1760. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro prices entered the supply zone [1.2180 - 1.2150]. It is
profitable to look for a sell pattern in this area within the medium-
term downtrend. The target is the February low.

In the chart of a shorter timeframe, the price is trading in a short-
term uptrend.

Yesterday the traders tested the support [1.2140 - 1.2136]. The price
didn’t break out the zone. Today, look for a pattern to buy the euro in
this zone. The target will be the upper Target Zone [1.2200 - 1.2183].

If the support [1.2140 - 1.2136] is broken out, it will be possible to
work in the correction with the target at the Intermediary Zone [1.2100
- 1.2092]. Intermediary Zone serves as the border of the trend.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.2140 - 1.2136]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.2200 - 1.2183]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell when the Additional Zone [1.2140 - 1.2136] is broken out. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1.2100 - 1.2092]. StopLoss: beyond the local high.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-24022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-24022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus