+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-13"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 13.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 13.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 13, 2020

July 13, 2020

EUR/USD forecast: three [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) for euroDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental Euro forecast for today

### EUR/USD traders will focus on the US stock indices and the meetings
of the ECB and the EU

Nothing lasts forever. The Euro strengthens, being supported by the
effective emergency measures taken by the ECB and the EU governments to
save the euro-area economy from the recession caused by the pandemic.
The end of the lockdown and the recovery of the euro-area GDP is going
faster than it was expected. However, everything could turn opposite if
the number of coronavirus cases soars in Europe, and the Frugal Four,
Austria, Sweden, Denmark, and the Netherlands block the EU fiscal
stimulus. However, this is a pessimistic scenario. I prefer a more
optimistic scenario.

The start of the US earnings season, the ECB meeting and the EU summit
are the highlights of the week through July 17, which should have a
great impact on the [EUR/USD][1] trend. The rally of the US stock
indexes weighs on the greenback. However, if the gloomy forecasts of the
Wall Street experts come true, the euro will lose its important growth
driver. According to FactSet, the earnings of the companies, whose
shares are included in [the S&P 500][2] will drop by 45% Y-o-Y in the
second quarter. The Dow Jones Market Data notes that the difference
between [the S&P 500][2] forecasts is 50 cents on paper, compared with
40 cents in the first quarter. The average difference over the past 13
years ranged from 9 cents to 16 cents. The wide gap means that the US
stock market can face a wild ride.

In my opinion, the worse are the forecasts, the higher is the chance
that the actual data will show a better performance. It could be good
[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) for the euro. The [S&P 500][2] is rising not only because of great
stimuli but also because of the talks that the creation of the
coronavirus vaccine and a decline in the fatality rate should compensate
for the negative [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) on the record number of the coronavirus cases.

### Dynamics of changes in new COVID-19 cases and the infection fatality
rate in the USA

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 13.07.2020][3]

 _Source: Trading Economics_

While the US considers the risks of the second lockdown, the euro-area
economy is recovering fast. The euro-area economic recovery is two-
speed. Like in the cases with trade wars in 2018-2019, strong domestic
demand compensates for the drop in exports. Investors expect a V-shaped
rebound of the European GDP, which narrows the yield spreads between
government bonds of the peripheral countries and Germany. They are the
primary indicator of financial stress in the euro area.

### Dynamics of Italy-Germany bond yield spread

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 13.07.2020][4]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

However, if the European Central bank shares the opinion of Klaas Knot,
everything can change very quickly. Dutch central bank governor suggests
the ECB asset purchases could fall short of the total QE program of
€1.35 trillion if the bloc’s economy recovers faster than expected from
the Covid-19 crisis. If the ECB monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) is tightened too early,
both the euro-area stock market and the euro will be pressed down. Let
us hope this doesn’t happen.

It would be a positive driver if the French-German emergency plan is
adopted at the EU summit. Angela Merkel noted that the Eurozone couldn’t
afford to waste time, which suggests the plan is likely to be approved.
If so, the [EUR/USD][1] could go up from the trading range of 1.11-1.14
and continue rising.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![EUR/USD forecast: three [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) for euro][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/covid-usa-13-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=0f80d5a2a895f544e888f44adaa20fdf
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/italy-germany-bonds-13-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=cb20ff832401890bd18ba9fe5407daf2
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-three-[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/)-for-euro&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-three-[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/)-for-euro&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-13-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=d10cb1757767d7e98fa43c6cd795fa33