+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-19"
description = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week 19-23 October 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week 19-23 October 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-19

2020-10-19

Medium-term forecast for five cryptocurrencies as of 19.10.2020Roman
Onegin

I welcome my readers!

I have prepared a medium-term cryptocurrency forecast based on Elliott
wave analysis of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS, and Ripple. I offer
trading signals for each cryptocurrency pair.

In the upcoming trading week, prices are expected to rise in the final
sub-waves for all cryptocurrency pairs.

The article covers the following subjects:

##  **Elliott wave Bitcoin analysis**

On the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) BTCUSD timeframe, a corrective wave is forming, which takes
the form of a double zigzag. Wave [W] has been completed, wave [X] is
now forming. The linking wave [X] has a double zigzag structure
(W)-(X)-(Y). Wave (Y) is developing, which is an A-B-C zigzag. Let's
consider the indicated zigzag on the 8-hour timeframe.

As part of the bullish zigzag A-B-C, the upward impulse wave A, which
consists of five sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5], was fully completed.
Then the price began to decline in corrective wave B, which, judging by
the structure, will take the form of a double zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]. In the
short term, the price may rise in the final impulse c of (Y) to the
level of 12062, that is, to the previous maximum, then a reversal of the
cryptocurrency pair and the price beginning to decline in wave [Y] is
possible. The whole wave B can be completed at the level of 9160, where
it will be 38.2% from impulse A according to the Fibonacci lines.

### Trading plan for [BTCUSD][1] for the week:

Buy 11435.75, TP 12062.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ethereum analysis**

 ****

Since the end of 2018, Ethereum has been forming an upward linking wave
[X] which takes the form of a triple zigzag. Recently, a bullish wave
(Y) came to an end, then we saw a decline in price within the second
linking wave (X). Wave (X) is likely to take the shape of a regular
A-B-C zigzag. Apparently, the first part of the bearish zigzag is
completed, that is, impulse A, and now the corrective wave B is
developing. Consider the chart on a smaller timeframe.

After the bearish impulse wave A was completed, we saw a corrective
movement within the wave B, which, apparently, will take the form of a
double zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]. At the moment, wave [Y] is in the process of
development, it consists of three main sub-waves (a)-(b)-(c). Possibly,
impulse (c) will be completed soon around the level of 394.20 which is
the previous high. Then the impulse wave C is expected to decline to the
level of 157.00.

### Trading plan **[ETHUSD][2] **for the week:

Sell 393.00, TP 307.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Litecoin analysis**

As for LTCUSD, there is a downward corrective wave B developing, and it
takes the form of a triple zigzag. On the chart, we see that the linking
wave [X] was built, which took the form of a double zigzag, then the
formation of the final wave [Z] began. Wave [Z] will possibly assume a
standard zigzag shape (A)-(B)-(C), where impulse (A) and bullish
correction (B) are already completed, and impulse (C) is still
developing. Let's consider the chart on the H8 timeframe.

After the corrective wave (B), which is a simple zigzag A-B-C, was
completed, the market began to build a downward impulse (C). Corrective
wave 4, consisting of sub-waves [a]-[b]-[c], is currently  developing as
part of this impulse. This correction will possibly end near the level
of 51.50, after that wave 5 may lead the market down to the area of the
previous low - 25.00, which was formed by the impulse wave (A).

### Trading plan for **[LTCUSD][3]**  for the week:

Buy 46.98, TP 51.50

* * *

##  **Elliott wave EOS analysis**

 ****

A global corrective wave is developing, it takes the form of a triple
zigzag. The first four parts within this triple zigzag have been
completed, that is, sub-waves [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]. The final active wave
[Z], which is taking the shape of a simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C), is now in
the development stage. Let's consider this zigzag in more detail on the
H8 timeframe.

The downward impulse wave (A) has been completed, then the market began
to move in an upward direction building a corrective wave (B). This
correction is expected to take the shape of a W-X-Y double zigzag. Wave
W zigzag has been fully formed, and wave X appears to have been
completed. Thus, in the near future, an increase in wave Y to the level
of 2.96 is possible, this is the maximum that was formed by wave W, then
we could observe a decrease in the price in the impulse wave (C) to the
previous low formed by the wave [Y], that is, to the level 1.40.

### Trading plan for **[EOSUSD][4]**  for the week

Buy 2.51, TP 2.96

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ripple analysis**

 ****

The development of a large downward corrective pattern continues, it is
a triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The first four parts of this
pattern have been completed. And now the final part, zigzag [Z], is
developing. Wave [Z] may take the form of a simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C).
Let's consider its structure on the 8-hour timeframe.

As part of the downward zigzag (A)-(B)-(C), there was a bearish impulse
(A). Currently, waves A-B-C are completing the bullish correction (B).
Perhaps, the end of this correction will be in the area of the 0.260
level, after which the price decline will continue in wave (C) towards
the level of 0.110 as shown in the chart. This level is the previous low
which was formed by the downward wave (Y).

### Trading plan for **[XRPUSD][5]** for the week:

Buy 0.239, TP 0.260

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-19102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-19102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus