+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-19"
description = "Forecast for euro price for 19 October 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for euro price for 19 October 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-19

2020-10-19

Second wave hits euro. Analysis as of 19.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

However efficient the anti-Covid summer measures may be, the pandemic is
returning to Europe, making the currency bloc’s countries impose new
restrictions and compromising Q4 GDP growth. How will that affect the
[EURUSD][1]? Let’s find it out and make a trading plan.

## Weekly fundamental forecast for euro

Which is worse: to be always on a losing streak or to have glimpses of
hope between losing streaks? [EURUSD][1] may help answer that question.
The second wave of COVID-19 is spreading across Europe so fast that the
eurozone’s double recession is being discussed in the market. Not only
will that increase the risk of the EURUSD’s further correction, but it
also suggests an eventual turn to downtrend. What’s more, neither China
nor Brexit haven’t lived up to the euro fans’ expectations so far.

China’s GDP grew by 4.9% in quarter 3. That’s better than the Q2 value
(+3.2%) and worse than the Bloomberg experts’ consensus forecast of
5.3%. Export-oriented China is in trouble as foreign demand is weak. It
can’t assume responsibility for the global economy’s fate. Next, the
risk of double recession is growing due to another round of restrictions
in Germany, France, Spain, Italy amid the severe worsening of the
epidemiological situation. That’s the main factor in [EURUSD][1]’s
collapse.

### China’s GDP dynamics

 _Source: Bloomberg._

### EURUSD rate and EU/US COVID cases

 _Source: Nordea Markets._

According to Societe Generale, any central bank that can soften monetary
[policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) will do that, especially in the regions with high infection rates
and restrictions on movement. Christine Lagarde says the second wave
compromises the most the service sector, which accounts for 75% of the
eurozone’s GDP. While Europe is facing the risk of QE expansion, the US
forward markets presume that Joe Biden’s victory, fiscal stimulus
extension, and inflation acceleration will make the Fed raise borrowing
costs before 2024.

Thus, the divergence in economic growth and monetary policies starts
showing favor to the USD, and that’s not the euro’s only problem. The
market still believes that the Brexit issue will be solved at the last
moment, just like it happened many times before. However, the clock is
ticking, and they still can’t get the things rolling. They say more
often that the pound can collapse 10% and draw the euro to the bottom in
an unfavorable scenario.

Hopes for a bright future did good for the eurozone’s currency in
summer, but they may eventually turn out to be harmful. Germany and the
currency bloc plan to cut the budget deficit from 6.25% to 4.25% and
from 8.9% to 6% of GDP in 2021. I hope the inopportune phaseout of
monetary stimulus won’t stir up a debt crisis in Europe like in
2010-2012.

### Weekly trading plan for [EURUSD][1]

Thus, EURUSD bulls have plenty of arguments to close long positions. A
breakout of support at 1.169 may drop quotes to 1.162 and 1.159. Use a
successful bearish storm for opening and building up short positions.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][2]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][3] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=second-wave-hits-euro-analysis-as-of-19102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   3. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=second-wave-hits-euro-analysis-as-of-19102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus