+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-19"
description = "Price forecast for the Australian dollar as of 19 October 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Price forecast for the Australian dollar as of 19 October 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-19

2020-10-19

Commodity currencies take a hit. Forecast for AUDUSD, NZDUSD, and USDCAD
as of 19.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The commodity markets’ state compensates for negative rumors of the RBA
and RBNZ’s monetary policies softening. Will that be enough for buying
[AUDUSD][1] and [NZDUSD][2], and selling [USDCAD][3]? Let’s find it out
and make a trading plan.

## Monthly fundamental forecast for commodity currencies

Commodity currencies are drawing back amid the USD’s consolidation and
the Chinese GDP’s downbeat statistics. Donald Trump’s winning chances
are melting away; the US budget deficit grew to 16.1% of GDP in the
2019-2020 fiscal year, a record high since 1945. Still, the greenback
feels good on expectations that the political uncertainty won’t reduce
even after the 3 November vote. What’s more, Former Finance Minister
Lawrence Summers thinks a double deficit won’t necessarily result in the
USD index’s fall. Treasuries are the world’s leading safe-haven asset,
and their demand will support the USD.

China’s Q3 GDP disappointing figures hit Australia’s and New Zealand’s
currencies, which depend much on China’s economy. China is the largest
consumer of commodities and the most important market for those
countries. Nearly 30% of Australia’s exports is connected with ore,
while 27% of NZ exports - with dairy and alimentary products.
Unsurprisingly, [AUDUSD][1] and [NZDUSD][2] are reacting so actively to
iron ore’s and milk’s prices.

### [AUDUSD][1] and iron ore



 _Source: Trading Economics._

### [NZDUSD][2] and milk prices

 _Source: Trading Economics._

The expectations of the Central Banks’ softer policies put pressure on
the AUD and NZD. According to Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan, RBA will
expand QE by AU$100 billion. It is 80% likely to happen at the meeting
on 3 November.

Reserve Bank of Australia Governor Philip Lowe mentioned that the
country’s 10-year bond yield was one of the highest globally, but the
bank had been buying only 3-year bonds until recently.

RBNZ is deliberately spreading rumors that the cash rate will drop below
zero, providing a so-called positive example of Sweden’s Riksbank. Rumor
has it that the Reserve Bank is only bluffing, trying to hold the kiwi’s
consolidation back. After a series of positive data on New Zealand, the
rate’s chance of having dropped to -0,25% by April decreased from 40% to
28% at the beginning of October. Strong statistics on inflation may drop
it even further and contribute to opening long positions in [NZDUSD][2].

In the meanwhile, the Canadian dollar is offering the most substantial
resistance to the greenback. There are two reasons for that. First, the
OPEC’s agreement to cut the output by 7.7 million b/d is expected to
extend beyond 2020. That makes oil quotes grow and inspires the CAD.
Second, the BoC is planning to provide a smaller-than-expected liquidity
volume under the QE program. A lower need for financing cuts the asset-
buying volume under three programs from CA$220 billion in June to CA$170
billion in October.

### Canadian dollar and oil



 _Source: Trading Economics._

The loonie’s short-term prospects outperform those of its Australian and
New Zealand peers. So, I can recommend selling [USDCAD][3] at a breakout
of support at 1.314. Most negative factors have already been reflected
in [AUDUSD][1] and [NZDUSD][2] quotes. However, the lack of the RBA’s
and RBNZ’s additional stimulus and the Chinese economy’s strength allow
buying those pairs at retracements with targets at 0.68 and 0.74.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NZDUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCAD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=commodity-currencies-take-a-hit-forecast-for-audusd-nzdusd-and-usdcad-as-of-19102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=commodity-currencies-take-a-hit-forecast-for-audusd-nzdusd-and-usdcad-as-of-19102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus