+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-11-11"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (11 November 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (11 November 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-11-11

2021-11-11

Short-term analysis for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 11.11.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Yesterday, the short-term gold trend continued, within which the Gold
Zone was reached.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Yesterday, oil price dropped dramatically. As a result, the Intermediary
Zone 81.03 - 80.77 was broken out. Thus, the short-term trend reversed
down. Today, the search for sales is a matter of primary importance. The
target for sales is the lower Target Zone 78.48 - 77.97. It is
profitable to look for short trades on correction at strong resistances.

The Additional Zone 81.15 - 81.02 and the Intermediary Zone 82.55 -
82.30 are strong resistances. It is reasonable to consider yesterday's
low as the first target for taking profit. A trend reversal by breaking
out the IZ and price consolidation above level 82.55 are required to
enter purchases.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone 81.15 - 81.02. TakeProfit: 79.80, Target Zone 78.48 - 77.97. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone 82.55 - 82.30. TakeProfit: 79.80, Target Zone 78.48 - 77.97. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Yesterday, the short-term gold trend continued, within which the Gold
Zone 1854 - 1852 was reached. The GZ was eventually broken out. The next
target for purchases is Target Zone 3 1875 - 1871.

After breaking out the Gold Zone, major traders exited longs, and the
price went into correction. As part of the correction, the short-term
uptrend's key support 1849 - 1847 was reached. This ​​key support zone
was held by buyers.

Today it is profitable to look for gold purchases with the first target
in the zone of ​​yesterday's high and with the second target in the
Target Zone 3.

The breakout of the Intermediary Zone and price consolidation below are
required for sales. In this case, it will be possible to consider short
trades with a target in the lower Target Zone 1831 - 1827.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone 1854 - 1847.
TakeProfit: Target Zone 3 1875 - 1871. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

A short-term euro downtrend continued. As a result, level 1.1514 was
reached. This level was broken out at the US trading session, and the
price consolidated below. The next target for sales within the trend is
the Gold Zone 1.1428 - 1.1419.

At the moment, a correction is developing. The likely target of the
correction is the Additional Zone 1.1512 - 1.1508. After the AZ test,
look for new euro sales according to the pattern with the target at
today's low.

If the Additional Zone is broken out and the price consolidates above
level 1.1514, a deep correction in the Intermediary Zone 1.1561 - 1.1552
will begin. The Intermediary Zone serves as the border of the trend, so
it will be reasonable to look for sales in the IZ according to the
pattern with the same targets.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone 1.1512 - 1.1508.
TakeProfit: 1.1468. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-11112021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-11112021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus