+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-08"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (8 October 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (8 October 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-08

2020-10-08

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 08.10.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

Oil price is rising after the test of the key support to the medium-term
uptrend.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

After the test of the key support of the middle-term uptrend [37.34 –
36.72], the oil price has started rising. Expect a buy pattern to enter
purchases. The upside target will be to break through the high of
September 18, and next, the high of August 18.

An alternative scenario suggests the price break out the key support and
consolidate below. If so, the price will drop to Target Zone 2 [31.14 —
30.52].

Oil short-term trend is up. The price was corrected down yesterday and
tested Additional Zone [39.38 - 39.24]. Expect a pattern to enter trades
in the zone today.

The pattern will emerge when the price breaks out level 40.27 and
consolidates above. If so, we shall enter purchases on the correction.
The upside target is the upper Target Zone [42.56 – 42.01].

The trend key support is in the zone of [38.00 – 37.73]. This is another
zone to enter long trades.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [39.38 - 39.24]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [42.56 - 42.01]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [38.00 - 37.73]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [42.56 - 42.01]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold is trading in the middle-term downtrend, the target is Target Zone
2 [1829.4 - 1820.1]. Hold sell trades entered in the resistance zone of
[1922.4 – 1913.1] down to the target.

The short-term trend is up. The target is Target Zone [1951.0 – 1941.7].
We shall buy gold when the price breaks out the resistance Additional
Zone [1901.8 – 1899.2]. If so, there will appear a 1-2-3 pattern.

To sell gold in the correction to the short-term uptrend, the traders
should hold up the resistance Additional Zone [1901.8 – 1899.2] and form
a setup to sell close to the zone. In this case, the sell target will be
Intermediary Zone [1868.3 — 1863.1].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Hold down medium-term sell trades entered in the zone of [1922.4 -
1913.1]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [1829.4 - 1820.1]. StopLoss: 1935.0.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

EURUSD is being corrected up in the middle-term uptrend. The correction
target is in Target Zone [1.1832 – 1.1812]. When the zone is tested, we
shall look for a selling set up with the downside target at the low of
September.

The euro local trend is up. The target for short-term purchases in the
upper Target Zone [1.1832 - 1.1812].

The price was yesterday corrected down to the zone of good buy prices
[1.1757 – 1.1697]. The trendline and the mirror support level helped us
detail the entry point.

In the previous article, I recommended buying the euro by market. Today,
I recommend holding purchases up to the target.

If you didn’t enter buy trades, you can buy today on the correction down
to the level of 50% of yesterday’s upward momentum.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Hold up buy trades. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1832 - 1.1812]. StopLoss:
1.1714.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-08102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-08102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus