+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-22"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 22.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 22.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 22, 2020

July 22, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 22.07.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil price broke through June’s high yesterday. It didn’t break out
Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. The price is now trading in the
resistance zone.

The further trend will depend on whether buyers consolidate the price
above TZ 5. If they do, the next upside target will be Target Zone 6
[49.17 – 48.42], and we shall enter new purchases on the correction.
Otherwise, the price will be corrected down to the trend key support.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 22.07.2020][1]

The oil short-term trend is up. Bulls are now trying to break out TZ5.
The US session closed the price in the resistance zone yesterday, which
means the zone hasn’t been broken out. If the US session closes the
price above the zone today, the next buy target will be Gold Zone 5
[45.04 – 44.67].

The strong support zones are now in the price ranges of [40.64 - 40.47]
and [38.94 – 38.60]. When the price moves close to these zones, one can
enter new purchases according to the pattern. The uptrend will continue
until the price breaks out level 38.60.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 22.07.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [40.64 - 40.47]. TakeProfit: 42.30. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Sell if Additional Zone [40.64 - 40.47] is broken out. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [38.94 - 38.60]. StopLoss: above the next local high.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

The gold price broke out Target Zone 6 [1817.2 – 1811.2] yesterday. The
next upside target in the medium-term uptrend is Target Zone 7 [1877.2 —
1871.2].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 22.07.2020][4]

The short-term uptrend continues. The price reached the resistance,
Target Zone 2 [1862.8 – 1853.7] yesterday. There wasn’t a sell signal.

Today, we shall see if buyers will break out TZ2. If they do, the next
upside target will be Gold Zone 2. Otherwise, the gold price will be
corrected down to Additional Zone [1845.2 - 1843.1] and Intermediary
Zone [1824.7 – 1820.6].

Enter new buy trades in AZ and IZ according to the pattern with the
target at today’s high.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 22.07.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1845.2 - 1843.1]. TakeProfit: 1865.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Sell if Additional Zone [1845.2 - 1843.1] is broken out. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1824.7 - 1820.6]. StopLoss: above the next local high.

* * *

##  **Euro to dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

Yesterday, the eurusd consolidated above level 1.1420 and reached Target
Zone 2 [1.1550 - 1.1532]. TZ 2 is the strong resistance, the price may
break it out at the first try.

I recommend expecting a correction to the trend key support [1.1365 -
1.1347] to enter new middle-term purchases.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 22.07.2020][7]

The price rose from Additional Zone [1.1423 – 1.1419] in the short-term
chart. Next, it has broken through the local high and reached Target
Zone 2 [1.1567 - 1.1549]. The price is now being corrected down with the
target at the new Additional Zone [1.1501 – 1.1497].

When the Additional Zone is tested, we shall look for a new pattern to
buy the euro with the target at today’s high.

If the price breaks out AZ, we shall enter sell trades with the target
in the trend key support [1.1456 — 1.1447].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 22.07.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1423 - 1.1419]. TakeProfit: 1.1550. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Sell if the price breaks out Additional Zone [1.1501 – 1.1497]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1.1456 - 1.1447]. StopLoss: above the next local high.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 22.07.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_220720_1.png?w=30&s=6753cf40f4e746759735381a966590bb
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_220720_2.png?w=30&s=509ae43cef511031c7be4623478f5f8e
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_220720_1.png?w=30&s=f469f95d8d24b4ef46973b1e446fc692
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_220720_2.png?w=30&s=9acef3d381f962829eb08f43f8e6c750
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_220720_1.png?w=30&s=488b6e5bf5cd3da0baea629eb4034615
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_220720_2.png?w=30&s=a49f78a7dfadb60e48ec30150b0afcb3
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-22072020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-22072020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_96.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=74a6a546a98adb96196f6c019f3b23ef