+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-22"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 22.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 22.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 22, 2020

July 22, 2020

Euro brings happinessDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental Euro forecast for today

### The EUR/USD surge to 18-month highs made the world’s authorities
happy

How little it takes to make people happy! First, lose something
important, and then get it back to feel good. The [EUR/USD][1] has been
back to the levels of early 2019, and so the high and mighty are
satisfied. For example, Donald Trump is happy, as he has many times
criticized the strong dollar. The EU governments are happy as the strong
euro signals the euro-area unity. The IMF is happy as it says the too
high dollar’s value hampers the global economic recovery. The euro bears
may argue that the ECB won’t let the rally continue as it is not
beneficial for the export-let euro area. I, however, do not agree. When
the authorities try to support the domestic demand cheap import becomes
a more important factor than the interests of foreign buyers.

The leading Wall Street banks share the same opinion. Just yesterday, I
noted that the approval of the French-German stimulus plan will support
European stock in the competition with the US peers. It will increase
the capital inflow to the euro-area markets, and so, the proportion of
the euro in the FX reserves of the central banks will grow, just like
its value. For example, Credit Suisse stresses that the percentage of
the dollar in the global currency reserves can drop to the levels
recorded in the early 1990s. The bank sees the [EUR/USD][1] at 1.18 and
higher.

### Dynamics of the US dollar proportion in the global FX reserves

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 22.07.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

According to Mizuho, the current fair value of the euro is $1.22 and its
rate may rise to $1.3 within 12 months due to large-scale purchases of
high-yield bonds of the euro-area peripheral countries. The risks of the
defaults have lowered after the EU governments agreed on the
€1.8-trillion fiscal stimulus. AG Bisset Associates, which has been
bearish on the US dollar for a long time, believes that the [EUR/USD][1]
will be 30% in the next 16 months.

I believe the market continues working out the idea of the divergence in
economic growth. The EU approval of the fiscal stimulus should speed up
the euro-area GDP recovery trend. The US growth, however, is set back by
disputes between the members of Congress and the White House. Democrats
are willing to do even more than they were before (the House of
Representatives approved a $3.5 trillion stimulus package). The
Republicans, however, reject this proposal suggesting a package of $1
trillion, including payroll tax cuts to encourage people to return to
jobs.

According to Bloomberg’s leading indicators, the gap in the recovery
paces of the euro area and the US widened over the past week. The lack
of agreement on the US new fiscal stimulus plan will widen it even more.

### Dynamics of the global GDP recovery trends

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 22.07.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

So, the bet on the divergence in the epidemiological situation and
economic growth in the euro area and the US is working and should
continue working. The [EUR/USD][1] upside target is at 1.17 by the
year’s end. I recommend buying the euro on the corrections down.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Euro brings happiness][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/dollar-holdings-22-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=3d50abb7e86a4fc9ff64359b7e799dde
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/recovery-22-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=22d7c6307c5115aef7e017634a60d4b7
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-brings-happiness&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-brings-happiness&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-22-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=704c0369b07c1d1153c0edeaf9efd938