+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-22"
description = "Forecast for AUDUSD for 22 July 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for AUDUSD for 22 July 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 22, 2020

July 22, 2020

Forecast for AUS/AUD: Aussie holds its tongueDmitri Demidenko

##  **Fundamental oil forecast for Australian dollar for today**

Mutual love is wonderful! I’d say that out of all G10 currencies, the
Australian dollar has loved me the most in response to my warm feelings.
I recommended buying it in [March][1], [April][2], [May][3], [June][4]
and [July][5]. Since then [AUD/USD][6] quotes have grown 21% and came
close to a target of 0.72. It’s time to revise forecasts as the
circumstances changes and many bullish drivers don’t look as bright as
they used to.

Looking back from a distance of a few months, a bet on a better
epidemiological situation, a shallow drawdown, a fast recovery of
Australia’s GDP and China’s support seems to be a win-win step. However,
the Aussie needs to consider some pitfalls when going with the tide.
Canberra’s accusing Beijing of letting out the coronavirus of a
laboratory resulted in import taxes on its agricultural production. The
consequences might have been more severe if Australia hadn’t shut up in
time. But now that China’s demand for energy resources and metals is
high, even the second pandemic wave doesn’t look terrifying.  The
exports smooth the recession and help GDP recover.

Resources became a bright spot in Australia’s economic [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/). The
sector managed to keep the employment rate at the pre-crisis level (240
thousand people). Exports of iron ore alone are close to reaching the
level of AU$100 billion while the total export volume of energy
resources and metals is AU$300 billion.  Even if Beijing may want to
break up with Canberra amidst worsening diplomatic relations, there’s no
one to take its place at the moment.  Especially now that Brazil’s
epidemiological situation is so bad.

### Important consumers of Australian energy resources and metals

![LiteForex: Forecast for AUDUSD for 22 July 2020][7]

 _Source: Financial Times._

Besides its good old trump, China, the Australian dollar has got some
new ones. RBA’s sharp rate cut made AUD one of the main funding
currencies, together with the Canadian dollar. Despite [AUD/USD][6]’s
bullish trend, carry traders benefit from trading the Aussie because of
its high correlation with developing countries’ currencies: it decreases
volatility.  As a result, Citigroup’s positioning indicators say that
speculative shorts in AUD are growing.

### Dynamic of speculative positions in Canadian and Australian dollars

### ![LiteForex: Forecast for AUDUSD for 22 July 2020][8]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The status of a funding currency means that [AUD/USD][6] bulls don’t
have to worry about a possible correction of global stock indexes which
may force speculators to close their positions. The Aussie’s stability
during the retracement of [S&P 500][9] in the second half of June
confirms that.

Canberra understood at the right time what worsening relations with
Beijing may mean to it. That allows the Australian dollar to continue
using the recovery of China’s economy as a trump.  The AUD will be
outdoing developing countries’ currencies as long as vaccine rumours
remain only rumours, and it will continue growing against the greenback
amidst a strong risk appetite. In order to buy [AUD/USD][6] with targets
at 0.75 and 0.79 in 6 and 2 months, a correction of [S&P 500][9] would
be necessary.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

![Forecast for AUS/AUD: Aussie holds its tongue][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/aussie-meets-qe/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/will-the-aussie-get-the-better-of-bears/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/aussie-is-going-to-be-the-winner/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/hedge-funds-cut-the-teeth-on-the-aussie/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/the-reserve-bank-of-australia-bluffs-and-scares-the-aud/
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/australia-export-22-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=fecac34d29f7f1c90a5f0afb334271c2
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/citi-pain-index-22-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=cb362243403c302302cd57881ec2f739
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forecast-for-ausaud-aussie-holds-its-tongue&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forecast-for-ausaud-aussie-holds-its-tongue&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-audusd-22-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=4421447c06d28c0a992dbafa2fe85398