+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-02"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 2, 2020

June 2, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.06.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude –** **oil** ****

Oil traders are trying to consolidate the price above Target Zone 4
[34.17 — 33.42]. If they succeed, the next target will be Target Zone 5
[41.67 – 40.92]. The trend key support is in the zone of [25.98 –
25.08], there yet no signs of a correction...

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.06.2020][1]

Oil short-term trend is up. It is clear from the short-term chart that
bulls re holding the price a little higher than Target Zone 4 [34.17 –
33.42]. The US session closed the price above the resistance. Therefore,
the price can reach Gold Zone 4 [37.53 – 37.16 today.

It is relevant to enter oil buy trades on the correction towards strong
supports, Additional Zone [32.73 - 32.51], and Intermediary Zone [30.48
- 30.03]. I recommend entering trades when there is a corresponding
pattern.

It is not yet relevant to sell. We could consider sell trades if at
least Additional Zone is broken out downside.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.06.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [32.73 - 32.51]. TakeProfit: 35.00. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [30.48 - 30.03]. TakeProfit: 35.00. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

In the longer timeframe, the gold price is being corrected down in the
middle-term downtrend. The correction target is to test Target Zone
[1673.6 – 1664.4].

I recommend one to consider [XAUUSD][4] sell trades at the current
levels with a take profit at the trend key support and a stop loss above
TZ 5. You can instantly enter a trade without opening the MetaTrader 4
terminal directly in the[ LiteForex trader profile][5]. You can also set
the relevant stop loss there, the platform will automatically calculate
the possible risk. If you haven’t yet opened a client profile with
LiteForex, it right time to [register][5].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.06.2020][6]

Let us look at the short-term chart. The gold short-term trend is down
that supports the idea to enter sell trades. The sell target is at
Target Zone [1673.6 - 1664.4].

The price is now trading a little lower than the trend key resistance.
This is the zone with good sell prices.

There is also an alternative scenario. If the price breaks out
Intermediary Zone the major scenario to sell will be canceled as the
trend will reverse up. This will be relevant if the US session closes
the price above yesterday’s high.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.06.2020][7]

 **[XAUUSD][4] Trading ideas for today:  **

Sell at the market price (1736.6). TakeProfit: Target Zone [1673.6 -
1664.4]. StopLoss: 1762.0

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

It is clear from the H4 chart that the US session closed the price above
Target Zone 2 [1.1109 – 1.1091] yesterday. However, to confirm the
breakout, I recommend expecting one more session to close the price
above.

If it doesn’t happen and the price rolls back under the resistance,
there may start a correction down. In this case, one could consider sell
trades with the target at the trend key support [1.0971 — 1.0953].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.06.2020][8]

In the local uptrend, buyers were testing Gold Zone [1.1152 – 1.1143]
yesterday. The resistance hasn’t been broken out, so the price will
hardly be rising right now. To buy the euro-dollar with the target in
Target Zone 2 [1.1252 – 1.1234], buyers need to break out GZ and
consolidate the price above.

There is also buyers’ activity in Additional Zone [1.1108 - 1.1103].
Bulls haven’t broken through the local high. If the price starts
declining from the current levels and breaks out AZ, we shall consider
sell trades in the correction with a target in Intermediary Zone [1.1059
— 1.1050].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.06.2020][9]

 **[EURUSD][10] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. If Additional Zone [1.1108 - 1.1103] is broken out, sell on the retest. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1.1059 - 1.1050]. StopLoss: 1.1125.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1059 - 1.1050]. TakeProfit: 1.1150. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][11]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][12] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.06.2020][13]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_020620_1.png?w=30&s=f43eb4091480a10f71eaf1435950afdd
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_020620_2.png?w=30&s=9bc567848cc2197576edcf24cb11b50c
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_020620_1.png?w=30&s=74c6c16d53d9e724f41935a6c3887871
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_020620_2.png?w=30&s=7d1d9ac47e6c4591a8670c074d83de2b
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_020620_1.png?w=30&s=bb95991efcc9ee5c4ceaa9e19bfc95e6
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_020620_2.png?w=30&s=17e7f8ce1f07e95155ab9a8abacdb617
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   11. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-02062020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-02062020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/oil_147.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=dd7bbc32f37b9218a4b305bf21a96d75