+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-02"
description = "AUD/USD forecast for 02.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "AUD/USD forecast for 02.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 2, 2020

June 2, 2020

Aussie works wondersDmitri Demidenko

## In March, no one could believe that the AUD/USD would be 24% up over
2.5 months

Australia, unlike other countries, averted recession 12 years ago. If it
doesn’t slide into a recession in 2020, it will be a miracle. The
chance, however, is small. According to Bloomberg forecasts, Australia’s
GDP contracted by 0.3% Q-o-Q in the January-March period. However, there
is a small chance that the Australian economy will avoid recession due
to the improvements in exports. Most analysts were sure that the
Australian economy will face a deep downturn in the April-June period.
However, a technical recession means the GDP contraction over the two
successive quarters. Do miracles happen in Forex?

However, if Australia doesn’t avoid a recession, its quick rebound will
support the [AUD/USD][1] bulls. In one of [previous AUD analytical
articles][2], I noted that the lockdown in Australia is not so strict as
in the USA and Europe, which leaves the hope for the V-shaped recovery
of Australia’s GDP suggesting the relevance of the AUD purchases. The
RBA meeting in June becomes further evidence that the [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) is correct.
According to Phillip Lowe, the depth of the downturn will be less than
it earlier expected. First, many companies are opening earlier than it
was planned. Second, the negative fallout is managed by the fiscal and
monetary stimulus.

The Reserve Bank of Australia left rates at 0.25% and confirmed its
pursuit of the yield curve control is correct. RBP was buying bonds for
just two days. The RBA measures have been enough to calm down the
financial markets. The important domestic drivers for the [AUD/USD][1]
rally are the fact that [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s do not expect the RBA monetary easing
and the GBP drop is less deep than it was earlier expected.

Among the foreign growth drivers for the Aussie is the price growth for
the S&P 500 and iron ore, as well as the hopes for a soon recovery of
China’s economy. China’s manufacturing PMI has been above 50 for already
several months, which signals economic expansion. Nonetheless, Australia
faces the problem of weak foreign demand, which results in a drop in
export orders.

 **Dynamics of AUD/USD and S &P 500**

![LiteForex: AUD/USD forecast for 02.06.2020][3]

 _Source: Trading Economics._

In the [forecast offered in April][4], I bet on the AUD purchases
following the investment idea that China’s economy should recover
quicker than the US and euro area. This factor has been partially priced
in the [AUD/USD][1]. Besides, if the Australia-China trade relations
deteriorate and the US-China trade war is escalated, the AUD can well
start a correction down.

Because Australia was going to investigate COVID-19 laboratory origin,
the Chinese media called Australia “a giant kangaroo that serves as a
dog to the US” or “chewing gum stuck on the sole of China's shoes”.
Furthermore, there are talks that China is willing to halt buying US
farm products due to Washington’s sanctions. The [first target][4] for
the [AUD/USD][1] longs at 0.675 has already been reached. The second
target can be now raised from 0.69 to 0.72, it is now relevant to buy
the AUD/USD on the corrections down. It is now the right time to take
part in the [LiteForex contest][5] with excellent prizes.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

![Aussie works wonders][8]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/forex-is-exiting-lockdown/
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/audusd-spx-02-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=89c1e566b264eaea02c7a0b7e666234a
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/will-the-aussie-get-the-better-of-bears/
   5. www.liteforex.com/contests/dream-draw/
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=aussie-works-wonders&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=aussie-works-wonders&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-audusd-02-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=8f31cb6588d1c620fa91c573ac3378b8