+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-09-02"
description = "Canadian dollar price forecast 2 September 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Canadian dollar price forecast 2 September 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-09-02

2021-09-02

Loonie's future depends on US dollar. Forecast as of 02.09.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

When the Fed remains passive, not responding to the acceleration of
inflation, and oil is rising in value, the [USDCAD][1] sellers feel
confident. Alas, this could not go on indefinitely. What does the future
hold for the pair? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a
trading plan.

## Monthly Canadian dollar fundamental forecast

When the Canadian dollar hit a 6-month high against the USD in early
June, it seemed no sign of trouble. The BoC was tapering monetary
stimulus, the government sped up vaccinations, the economy was
recovering quickly, and the major banks predicted its growth by 6% given
the close proximity to the US with its massive incentives program.
Belief in global demand fueled [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/) interest in oil. Alas, summer
was an absolute disaster for the Loonie. First, the Fed issued a
statement on a possible increase in the federal funds rate in 2022, then
the oil collapse undermined the position of the [USDCAD][1] bears.

In theory, everything looked good. In practice, it turned out to be
completely different. The Fed officials have announced their readiness
to begin tapering the QE program this year and raise rates next year.
Confident Brent and WTI bulls were frightened by the Delta, the slowdown
in global demand against the background of an increase in OPEC +
production, and a decline in China's GDP growth. The Canadian economy
also began to experience problems. After an impressive 5.5% in the first
quarter, it unexpectedly contracted 1.1% against an expansion forecast
of 2.5%. Even greater fears were caused by the decline in July GDP by
0.4%.

### Dynamics of Canadian GDP

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Supply problems in April-June provoked a 15% and a 12% decline in
exports and residential investment, respectively. It also forced the
Bank of Montreal to cut its GDP forecast for 2021 from 6% to 5% and
exacerbated the political struggle between the Liberal Party led by
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and the Conservatives. Polls show that
none of the opponents has a decisive advantage.

### Dynamics of ratings of Canadian political parties

 _Source: Bloomberg._

As a rule, parliamentary elections lead to an increase in the volatility
of the national currency and put pressure on it due to the
unpredictability of the results. This is not the case with the Loonie.
Despite the growing political uncertainty, the previous five votes had
little or no effect on the CAD rate. Currently, the monthly volatility
of the Canadian dollar is only slightly higher than the 3-month
volatility, which indicates a reduced sensitivity of the financial
markets to the September 20 elections. Investors are well aware that the
fate of [USDCAD][1] will be determined by factors such as monetary
[policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), economic growth and oil market conditions.

### Monthly [USDCAD][1] trading plan

The US jobs report will have the most significant impact on the USDCAD
dynamics in the short term. The same strong non-farm payrolls data as in
June and July will bring the US economy closer to full employment and
push the Fed towards normalizing monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). This will lead to a
strengthening of the greenback against the major world currencies and
contribute to the continuation of the [USDCAD][1] rally in the direction
of 1.278 and 1.29. On the contrary, weak data will cause the pair to
fall below the important support at 1.256, followed by a decline to
1.2485 and 1.24.



The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCAD&returnUrl=true