+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-09-02"
description = "Euro price forecast 2 September 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 2 September 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-09-02

2021-09-02

Euro doesn’t want to be the last. Forecast as of 02.09.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

Hawkish comments of the ECB officials and a weak ADP jobs report sent
the [EURUSD][1] up above 1.185. What’s next? Let us discuss the Forex
outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

Over the past eighteen months, the ECB hawks have been silent, looking
at what the pandemic has done to the European economy. Now, as the life
of the currency bloc is gradually returning to normal, they are seizing
every opportunity to make their voices heard. Markets believe that the
pro-German lobby will win the battle to cut monthly PEPP asset purchases
at the September Governing Council meeting, thus pushing the euro-area
bond yields up to six-month highs; the [EURUSD][1] has risen to the
middle of figure 18. Banks' shares also rose actively, as higher
interest rates are the key to income growth.

In 2020, the ECB, through quantitative easing programs, bought up all
the net emissions of European bonds. In 2021, it is moving on the same
schedule. This cannot go on indefinitely. The euro-area economy is not
so weak to require the huge monetary support it currently has. Thanks to
PEPP, the ECB managed to press down bond yields, but purchases for about
€80 billion per month are not relevant anymore. Most likely, after the
September 9 meeting, the monthly pace of asset purchases will be reduced
to €40-€60 billion, but this does not mean the monetary stimulus will be
withdrawn completely. Resources in the amount of €1.85 trillion will be
fully used. By March 2022.

### Dynamics of ECB asset purchases under PEPP

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

However, most [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s used to believe the PEPP would be replaced by
another stimulus. By downsizing the pandemic emergency asset purchase
program, the ECB will increase another type of QE. Now, they have
doubts, as Christine Lagarde claims that the euro-area economy is
recovering from the pandemic and only needs “surgical” support aimed at
sectors still struggling.

The [EURUSD][1] bulls have also been supported by a weak ADP jobs
report. Private payrolls rose by 374,000 in August **,** far short of
the forecast for 613,000. If the report of the US Department of labor,
scheduled on Friday, will also be disappointing, the US dollar will lose
its primary benefit, as [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s will doubt that the Fed will announce
the tapering of the QE in late September.

### Dynamics of ADP employment data

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

If the ECB doesn’t boost the APP, the PEPP expiration in March 2022 will
be interpreted as a reduction in monetary stimulus. In addition to a
decline in coronavirus cases and a faster vaccination campaign in the EU
compared to the US, this circumstance should encourage the euro bulls to
go ahead. Furthermore, the euro-area GDP grew faster than the US in the
second quarter, and the PMIs data suggest that the third quarter will be
the same.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

However, again, the above scenario is just a presumption. It is as
probable as a federal funds rate hike in 2022. The [EURUSD][1] short-
term trend now depends on the US jobs report. A strong reading of the US
employment will send the euro back below the bottom of figure 18. A weak
report will support the euro-dollar rally towards 1.188 and 1.1935. In
the medium term, the ECB's willingness to start monetary normalization
sooner than expected will make the euro unlikely to fall to $1.14. I
don’t think the euro will go down to $1.1, as Nordea predicted.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true