+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-05"
description = "US dollar price forecast 5 February 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 5 February 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-05

2021-02-05

Dollar wants to smile again. Forecast as of 05.02.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The leading vaccination rate in the USA compared to the euro area
contributes to the expansion of divergence in economic growth and
presses down the [EURUSD][1]. How long can this last? Let us discuss the
Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Fundamental US dollar forecast for six months

The greenback seems to be smiling… The USD index has been growing for
four weeks out of five this year, featuring the best trading performance
since October in the first week of February. It reminds me of the dollar
smile theory. According to the theory, the USD, first, strengthens amid
the concerns about the recession risks; next, the dollar weakens amid
the Fed's aggressive monetary stimulus. Then, it strengthens again amid
the USD GDP rate outpacing the global growth.

The dollar smile theory fits well with the concepts of the greenback
transformation from a safe-haven asset into a risky currency and uneven
economic growth. The USD is strengthening even amid the growth of the US
stock indexes, which break through all-time highs. Joe Biden is ready to
compromise with the Republicans and reduce the previously announced
fiscal stimulus amount of $1.9 trillion, but hardly by much. Investors
expect $1 trillion, and if the actual aid package is larger, the [S&P
500][2] will continue to rally. At the same time, the inverse
correlation of stock indices with the US dollar is weakening, which,
amid Treasury yields growth, suggests a change in the US dollar status.
Why not use yesterday's safe-haven asset as a risky currency in carry
trades today?

### Dynamics of dollar’s correlation with US stocks



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Remarkably, Reuters experts still believe that the current USD rally is
just a temporary surge. According to 63 out of 73 economists, the
greenback in 3 months will remain at current levels or decrease. The
consensus forecast assumes EURUSD will rise to 1.23 and 1.25 in 6 and 12
months. Many experts believe that the outperformance of the US economy
will ultimately crash the dollar. The US and China will become the
drivers of the global GDP growth, which will negatively affect safe-
haven assets. In addition to the progress in the euro-area vaccination
campaign, this will result in the [EURUSD][1] uptrend recovery. I share
the same point of view.

The main risks for this scenario are in the uneven recovery of the world
economy, which will allow the dollar smile theory to work out, and
suggest an earlier than currently assumed Fed’s monetary normalization.
If the dollar bulls use both of the greenback’s advantages, we can
consider the [EURUSD][1] uptrend to be broken down.

The uneven distribution of vaccines suggests that the GDP will grow in
some countries and contract in other ones. But still, I hope that the
EU's efforts to accelerate the vaccination process will be successful,
and the euro area, together with China and the US, will become a driver
of global economic growth. The Fed should consider the US economic
situation and the global growth as well before deciding to wind down the
QE.

### [EURUSD][1] trading plan for six months

Therefore, I bet on a 70% chance that the [EURUSD][1] will reach level
1.25 in 2021. The euro medium-term outlook remains bullish. In the short
run, it is still relevant to sell the pair and hold down the shorts
entered at [level 1.208][3].



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/the-fed-failed-mission-eurusd-forecast-as-of-28012021/