+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-22"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (22 December 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (22 December 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-22

2020-12-22

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 22.12.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

Gold is trading in the zone of the medium-term downtrend key resistance
[1890.8 - 1879.3].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Yesterday, oil traders managed to consolidate below the trendline in the
medium-term chart. Therefore, it can be assumed that oil is trading in
the correction. The target of the correction movement is the last week’s
low + Target Zone [44.67 - 44.20].

Let's take a look at the chart of a shorter timeframe. A short-term
uptrend can still be observed. Yesterday, the traders tested the trend
key support [47.05 - 46.81]. It was not possible to break out the zone
at once.

Today, the bears are making a second attempt to break out the level and
consolidate below. If successful, the local trend will turn down, and we
will sell oil with a target at the lower Target Zone [44.67 - 44.20].

Until the zone is broken out, look for purchases with the target at the
high of last week + Target Zone 2 [50.26 - 49.78].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [47.05 - 46.81].
TakeProfit: 49.35, Target Zone 2 [50.26 - 49.78]. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold is trading in the zone of the medium-term downtrend key resistance
[1890.8 - 1879.3]. Consider looking for sales according to the pattern
with a target at November low.

The short-term trend remains up for now. The price went into a
correction. Yesterday the trendline was broken out, and the zone of key
support [1856.7 - 1851.7] was tested.

Buyers showed their activity after the Intermediary Zone test: the price
bounced back and again tested the resistance Target Zone [1890.8 -
1879.3].

I recommend you to wait for a pattern to buy from IZ with a target at
yesterday's high.

If the IZ is broken out at the US session, the short-term trend will
turn down, and we will sell gold down to the lower Target Zone [1806.7 -
1796.7] starting from tomorrow.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1856.7 - 1851.7].
TakeProfit: 1906.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

In a four-hour timeframe, Euro has gone into correction with the target
at last week's low + Target Zone [1.2088 - 1.2070]. You may ask, where
do such conclusions come from? The answer is that the trendline has been
broken out, to which the price has been reacting for the last two weeks.
This is the sloped technical support level, which has become a
resistance since yesterday.

The short-term Euro trend is up. Yesterday, traders tested Intermediary
Zone [1.2180 - 1.2171], which is the key support. The zone hasn’t been
broken out, and there has been a reaction shown by traders.

The price, rising from Intermediate Zone, has been stopped in the
resistance zone [1.2231 - 1.2221]. Today, consider working with two
levels:

  1. Key support
  2. Resistance [1.2231 - 1.2221]

Purchases according to patterns and Euro sales are both possible.
Depending on which signal appears first, we will channel our work to buy
or sell.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in the level [2231 - 1.2221]. TakeProfit: 2131, Target Zone [1.2088 - 1.2070]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [2180 - 1.2171]. TakeProfit: 2271. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-22122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-22122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus