+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-14"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (14 January 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (14 January 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-14

2021-01-14

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 14.01.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Euro retests the zone of medium-term uptrend key support [1.2165 -
1.2146]

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil price is growing and approaching the target - Target Zone 4 [54.72 -
54.21]. The trend remains up, so purchasing on corrections is a
priority. The key support is shifting to the [49.39 - 48.94] zone.

The short-term trend remains up. Yesterday we observed the price
correction down to the Additional Zone [52.79 - 52.68]. The price didn't
break out the zone, so today enter purchases according to the pattern.
After the pattern has been formed, open a long position with the target
at yesterday's high + Target Zone 3 [55.00 - 54.53].

Alternative option is the breakout of AZ and consolidation below. In
this case, the intraday trend will turn down, and there will be an
opportunity to start selling with the target in the Intermediary Zone
[51.66 - 51.43].

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [52.79 - 52.68]. TakeProfit: 53.91, Target Zone 3 [55.00 - 54.53]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. If the price breaks out the Additional Zone [52.79 - 52.68], sell. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [51.66 - 51.43]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

The medium-term gold uptrend continues, which means that you can
continue to buy from the zone [1859.2 - 1816.9]. We are waiting for the
pattern. The target is Target Zone 2 [2005.8 - 1994.3].

Sell gold when the level of 1816.9 is broken out.

The short-term trend is down. At the moment, the traders are trying to
break out the Target Zone [1859.2 - 1849.2]. If the price closes below
the zone at the US session, the Gold Zone [1809.2 - 1804.2] will become
the next sell target.

On January 12-13, traders tried to test the trend line [1872.0 - 1867.0]
but the price did not reach this zone. The probability of the key
resistance level's test remains.

If the resistance test takes place, look at the sellers' reaction.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Open medium-term buy positions according to the pattern [1859.2 -
1816.9]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [2005.8 - 1994.3]. StopLoss:
according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Euro retests the zone of medium-term uptrend key support [1.2165 -
1.2146]. I expect this week's local low to be updated. Next, we will see
if the price consolidates below the level, and the trend reverses down.

Let's take a look at the chart of a shorter timeframe and analyze the
situation.

We see here that the euro is trading in a short-term downtrend.
Yesterday the traders tested the key resistance zone [1.2233 - 1.2224].
I recommended entering sales according to the pattern with the target at
the 1.2134 low.

Today hold the euro sell trades at the breakeven until the price reaches
the target.

You can increase the volume of the sell position by adding up trades in
the zone of [1.2186 - 1.2182].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Hold sell trades entered in Intermediary Zone [1.2233 - 1.2224].
TakeProfit: 1.2134. StopLoss: at breakeven.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-14012021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-14012021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus