+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-01"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (1 October 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (1 October 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-01

2020-10-01

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 01.10.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The middle-term oil trend is up. The resistance to the price growth is
Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. Gold is being corrected up to the middle-
term downtrend. The likely correction target is to test the broken-out
Target Zone [1922.4 — 1913.1].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil is trading in the middle-term uptrend. The trend resistance is
Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. If traders break out this zone, the price
will continue rising towards Target Zone 6 [49.17 — 48.42].

The short-term trend is up. Yesterday, in the correction, traders
retested Intermediary Zone [38.72 – 38.45]. They didn’t break out the
zone, there was a false breakout of the low of September 21, next, there
emerged the 1-2-3 pattern.

Today, I recommend holding up purchases entered according to the
pattern, or entering buy trades on the correction. The upside target is
the high of September 18 + Target Zone [42.85 – 42.23].

An alternative scenario. The price doesn’t break out the resistance
Additional Zone [39.77 - 39.63], and there is a sell pattern close to
this zone. If so, yesterday’s low will be broken through and the short-
term trend will turn down.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Hold up purchases/buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone
[38.72 - 38.45]. TakeProfit: 41.45, Target Zone [42.85 - 42.23].
StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold price is being corrected up in the middle-term downtrend. The
likely correction target is to test the broken-out Target Zone [1922.4 —
1913.1]. After the zone is tested, I suggest looking for sell signals.

The short-term gold trend is down. The correction stopped under the key
resistance Intermediary Zone [1900.1 – 1895.4]. Expect a pattern to sell
in this zone. When there is a pattern, open a short position with a
target at Gold Zone [1852.9 – 1848.2].

It will be relevant to buy gold when the price consolidates above IZ. If
so, the short-term trend will turn up, and the upside target will be the
upper Target Zone [1951.0 — 1941.7].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1900.1 - 1895.4].
TakeProfit: Gold Zone [1852.9 - 1848.2]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD is close to the resistance level of 1.1752. Buyers are likely
to break out the level and the correction should drive the price to
Target Zone [1.1832 – 1.1812], where the euro middle-term trend will be
determined.

The euro short-term trend is up. Yesterday, I recommend entering buy
trades according to the pattern in the zone of [1.1705 - 1.1645].

Yesterday, the price was corrected to Additional Zone [1.1705 – 1.1700].
Next, there emerged a false breakout pattern to buy, the entry point
appeared at the US session.

For today, I recommend closing a part of purchases at the current
prices. Move the rest of the buy trades to the breakeven and hold them
up to the target in Target Zone [1.1832 – 1.1812].

It is also relevant to enter new buy trades on the correction according
to the patterns in the new AZ and IZ. To draw the new support levels,
the price should break through yesterday’s high.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Hold up a part of purchases entered in the zone of [1.1705 - 1.1645].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1832 - 1.1812]. StopLoss: at breakeven

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-01102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-01102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus