+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-24"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 24.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 24.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 24, 2020

August 24, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 24.08.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

WTI oil is trading in the middle-term uptrend with an upside target at
Target Zone 6 [49.17 - 48.42]. The week, I recommend entering purchases
according to the pattern in the broken-out TZ5 and in the key support
zone [37.23 – 36.61] if the price goes there in the correction.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 24.08.2020][1]

It is clear from the short-term chart that the price hasn’t broken out
the resistance Additional Zone [42.70 - 42.55]. Last week, the trend
line was broken, which allowed us to open oil sell positions according
to the pattern. The downside target is level 41.00 and Intermediary Zone
[40.33 – 40.02].

The short-term oil trend is still up. I recommend entering purchases in
the trend key support according to the pattern. The buy target will be
to break through the high of August.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 24.08.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Hold down sell trades entered in Additional Zone [42.70 - 42.55]. TakeProfit: 41.00, Intermediary Zone [40.33 - 40.02]. StopLoss: 42.72.
  2. Buy according to the pattern Intermediary Zone [40.33 - 40.02]. TakeProfit: 43.40. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

In the medium-term chart, gold is trading in the range of [1957.9 -
1913.1]. According to the margin zones methodology, the middle-term gold
trend is up. Therefore, we can enter purchases in the range indicated
above.

If bears break out level 1913.1 and consolidate the price below, the
middle-term trend will turn down.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 24.08.2020][4]

It is clear from the short-term chart that gold is trading in the short-
term downtrend. Last week, traders broke out Intermediary Zone and
reached Target Zone [1922.4 - 1913.1].

The price didn’t break out Target Zone and started a correction up.
Buyers are testing the resistance Additional Zone [1937.0 – 1934.7]. I
recommend entering sell trades according to the pattern in the zone.

The trend key resistance is in the zone [1962.6 – 1957.9]. If the price
reaches the zone in the correction, I will also recommend entering sell
trades. The target is to break through the local low of August 21.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 24.08.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1937.0 - 1934.7]. TakeProfit: 1912.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1962.6 - 1957.9]. TakeProfit: 1912.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

Last week, the EURUSD reached the trend key support to the middle-term
uptrend [1.1783 – 1.1765]. The zone hasn’t been broken out. This week,
we expect buyers’ reaction in the zone.

If there is a buy pattern, we shall enter purchases. Take profit will be
at the high of last week.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 24.08.2020][7]

The price reached the downside target marked for the short-term
downtrend; it hit Target Zone [1.1783 – 1.1765]. The EURUSD is trading
in the correction and testing Additional Zone [1.1804 - 1.1800].
Additional Zone is a strong resistance, where we shall enter new sell
trades according to the pattern. The second zone to enter sales is the
trend border [1.1854 – 1.1845].

It will be relevant to buy the euro when the price breaks out AZ and
consolidates above. If so, we can enter purchases with the target in
Intermediary Zone.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 24.08.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1804 - 1.1800]. TakeProfit: 1.1755. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1854 - 1.1845]. TakeProfit: 1.1755. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 24.08.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_240820_1.png?w=30&s=bc26bd8ac11b6e2e85fc84f6f29c1b72
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_240820_2.png?w=30&s=80c800bfbd1e7b1610c0b14866329ed7
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_240820_1.png?w=30&s=38560b69899dd13a3c71d41f83a387b1
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_240820_2.png?w=30&s=3b94b4689ad89daa11b0ba9e62c6fe5a
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_240820_1.png?w=30&s=34164283f8e00298f1579a99aed98c50
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_240820_2.png?w=30&s=7ea1b1924c7cf21b5f8009fc98f25bb5
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-24082020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-24082020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/dollar_2.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=96a5d06001e92aeafc3ba0f031767637