+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-24"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 24.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 24.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 24, 2020

August 24, 2020

EUR/USD forecast: Dollar generates a new ideaDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental US dollar forecast for today

### Investors will focus on the US presidential election in autumn

Markets are driven by investment ideas, which are generated first, then
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s open positions, and finally, close them if something goes
wrong. In spring, everybody was tracking the global risk appetite and
the changes in the [S&P500][1] value, to buy or sell the dollar pairs.
In summer, they were focused on the divergence in the economic expansion
between the euro area and the US, which sent the [EUR/USD][2] to the
highest level over the last two years. Once the market had had doubts
about its efficiency, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s closed longs and sent the euro down.

The PMI report in August has ruined the idea of the leading performance
of the euro-area GDP over the US growth. The PMI is thought to be a
leading indicator for the GDP. The US composite PMI has been up to its
eighteen-month high, and its European peer has fallen from 54.9 to 51.6,
making the [EUR/USD][2] bulls exit longs. The US economy is being
reopened after the lockdown introduced in the spring; it is surprisingly
resilient to the coronavirus epidemic going in the country. The
Eurozone’s growth is slowing down amid the rise in the number of new
COVID-19 cases in Germany, France, and Spain to the levels recorded in
May, and even in April.

### Dynamics of PMI

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 24.08.2020][3]

 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

Also, there are problems in the euro-area labor market. So, the Forex
analysts say that the European economy is more likely to have a W-shaped
recovery, rather than a V-shaped one. The programs of the population
retention in the labor force existing in the euro area do not encourage
people to find new jobs. The labor market is dynamic when it goes
through the phases of rising and fall. If the fall is artificially
averted, can we expect the employment boom in 2021-2022? The actual
unemployment level may not be at the official level of 7.8% but is
likely to be above 9%, and in Spain, it can be close 20%. What will
happen when the assistance programs are over?

In my opinion, things are not that bad. The growth in the new
coronavirus cases in Europe results from the holiday season. Mostly
young people are sick, most often asymptomatic, which explains the low
number of hospitalizations and mortality. The GDP recovery will be slow
both in the US and in the euro area, the markets need a fresh investment
idea. It can well be the US presidential election. What is good for
Donald Trump is good for the US dollar. Hence, the growing risks of
Trump’s defeat will weigh on the USD.

Therefore, the [EUR/USD][2] can roll down in the short-term. But, in the
long-term, the euro uptrend is likely to resume. My idea about the
[middle-term consolidation][4] in the range of 1.158-1.188 looks more
and more promising. So, I still recommend buying the euro on the rebound
from the supports at $1.173, $1.168, and $1.162.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![EUR/USD forecast: Dollar generates a new idea][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/pmi-24-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=854bc2f071a0b0ea7fe4ab3d28c8d60b
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/fundamental-us-dollar-forecast-for-today/
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-dollar-generates-a-new-idea&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-dollar-generates-a-new-idea&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-24-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=6df6bfea40d5e4567c6cfb9081a16b57