+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-24"
description = "SPX forecast for 24.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "SPX forecast for 24.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 24, 2020

August 24, 2020

SPX forecast: S&P 500 believes in the futureDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental SPX analysis for today

### The equities of the US technology companies meet the expectations

The best explanation why the stock market signals a V-shaped recovery of
the US economy, but the US GDP doesn’t return to the trend is “Main
Street is the now, Wall Street is the future.” For the first time since
1970, the share of the five largest companies in the total [S&P500][1]
capitalization has exceeded 25%, including the US technological giants:
[Apple][2], [Amazon][3], [Microsoft][4], [Alphabet][5], and
[Facebook][6]. Their success is a bet on the future. And that was always
so. Five decades ago, the top five largest corporations included IBM
(computers), AT&T (telephony), General Motors (car-making), Exxon (oil),
and Kodak (cameras).

###  **The share of the five largest companies in the S &P 500
capitalization **

![LiteForex: SPX  forecast for 24.08.2020][7]

_Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

Unlike in 1970, the present leaders are very similar—they bet on selling
online rather than in ordinary shops. The bet works out perfectly amid
the lockdown and the US financial aid programs. As the US economy
reopens, the traditional values returns, the fiscal stimulus ends, and
the equities of the US technology companies are more likely to
depreciate. So, it won’t be surprising if the US domestic data will send
the [S&P500][1] down.

A typical example is trading on August 18, when the shares of 332
companies dropped in value, 168 increased, and stock index eclipsed the
previous high set in February only because the capitalization of the
winners exceeded the market value of the losers by 2.5 times.

The Tech stocks benefited from not only social distancing policies but
also from the Fed’s massive injections of liquidity, followed by the
drop in the Treasury yields to all-time lows. Hence, the improvement of
the US economic state and a more hawkish tone of the Fed will increase
the Treasury yields, encouraging [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s to sell the securities of the
US top 5 companies. It will weigh on the [S&P500][1].

There is another factor, which can send the US stock market down. It is
the US presidential election. According to the polls, Joe Biden has a
better chance to win than Donald Trump. The Democratic candidate also
promises to support the US economy by raising taxes on corporations and
wealthy households, thereby increasing federal revenues. I should note
that the richest 10% of Americas now own 87% of stocks, the share
increased from 82.4% in 2009. A hit on them will hit the US stock
market.

###  **Dynamics and structure of the US stockholders**

![LiteForex: SPX  forecast for 24.08.2020][8]

 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

Therefore, the risk of the [S&P500][1] drawdown will much increase if
the price breaks out the support zone of 3330-3335. However, I do not
expect the correction to last long. The pandemic will make society more
socially isolated than earlier. The global debt will grow to 128% of
GDP, according to the IMF. Furthermore, the economies will take a longer
time to recover compared to the previous global crisis amid the
technologies, the population aging, and other factors. It will make the
central banks to hold the bond yields low. So, the drop in the stock
index value to 3265-3280 and 3220-3230 is a reason to open long-term
longs.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][9]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][10] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of SPX in real time mode

![SPX forecast: S&P 500 believes in the future][11]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23AAPL&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23AMZN&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23MSFT&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23GOOG&returnUrl=true
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23FB&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/top5-stocks-24-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=a666304b2089b5979b058524b551d473
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/stocks-24-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=caa938f1354c271fed2cf5cbadd6afb2
   9. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=spx-forecast-sp-500-believes-in-the-future&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   10. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=spx-forecast-sp-500-believes-in-the-future&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-spx-24-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1f75cec3ef0fd20327c331aeeb462d85