+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-24"
description = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=26.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 24, 2020

August 24, 2020

Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysisRoman Onegin

## Forecast for BTCUSD, LTCUSD, ETHUSD, EOSUSD, XRPUSD pairs

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[BTCUSD][1]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][2]**

The BTCUSD market continues forming the global corrective wave 4 that
started after the bullish impulse 3 had ended. Correction 4 is composed
of the sub-waves [W]-[X]-[Y]. The linking wave [X] is now unfolding. The
[X] wave is likely to complete as a double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y). The
market is now rising in wave (Y), which is developing as a simple
zigzag. Let study the chart in more detail in the eight-hour timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][3]

After the linking down wave (X) completed as a double zigzag, the new
uptrend has started. There is likely to be developing the bullish
impulse wave A that is composed of the sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5].
The skewed triangle [4] finished not long ago. Next, the cryptocurrency
pair has started rising in wave [5]. Its first four elements are likely
to have formed. So, the price should be going up in wave (5) of [5] to a
level of 12600 in the next few weeks.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[ETHUSD][4]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][5]**

The [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) timeframe displays the structure of the middle part of the
global triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. There is now forming the
upward linking wave [X], which is a double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y). The sub-
waves (W) and (X) are completed. Wave (Y) is yet unfolding. Let us see
the structure of the bullish wave (Y) in the eight -hour timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][6]

Wave (Y) is composed of the sub-waves A-B-C. The impulse wave A and the
corrective wave B have completed. There is now forming the bullish
impulse wave C, with impulse [3] likely completed inside. The price is
now declining in the corrective wave [4]. It should end a level of
366.00, which is the previous high. Next, the ETHUSD market should
resume rising in wave [5] to a level of 500.00, as it is outlined in the
chart.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[LTCUSD][7]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][8]**

The LTCUSD market is forming the global triple zigzag, with the final
motive wave [Z] unfolding inside. The [Z] wave is developing as a simple
zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). Most likely, the upward corrective wave (B) is now
unfolding. It is expected to end at a level of around 83.00, which is
the previous high made by correction 4. Let us study the chart structure
in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][9]

The corrective wave (B) is developing as a zigzag, it is composed of the
sub-waves A-B-C. There is currently developing the impulse wave C,
namely, its fourth element, correction [4]. Wave [4] is not likely to be
big, it should shortly end. After wave [4], the market should turn up
and start rising in the final wave [5] towards a level of 83.00. An
approximate trajectory of the LTC future price movement is outlined in
the chart.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[EOSUSD][10]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][11]**

The EOSUSD market is forming the bearish correction B, which is a triple
zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The sub-waves [W]-[X]-[Y] have completed.
The bullish linking wave [X] is now unfolding as a simple zigzag. Wave
(A) is an impulse, wave (B) is a double downward zigzag, wave (C) is an
impulse that is about to end soon. Most likely, the entire wave [X]
should end around level 4.17, which is the resistance. Let us explore
the chart structure in more detail in a shorter timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][11]

It is clear from the chart that the corrective wave (B) has been
followed by the upward impulse wave (C). At the time of writing, there
have completed the sub-waves 1-2-3-4 of the (C) wave. There is now
developing the beginning of the final, fifth wave. Therefore, the market
should be rising over the next few weeks following wave 5.

* * *

###  **Wave analysis for[XRPUSD][12]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][13]**

The XRPUSD market is forming the down triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z].
The first three elements of the pattern have completed. There is now
developing the linking wave [X] as a simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C), where
the sub-waves (A) and (B) completed. There is now unfolding the upward
impulse wave (C). Let us see its structure in the eight-hour timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][14]

The impulse wave (C) is composed of the sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. The
corrective wave 4 ended not long ago. So, the Ripple market will be
rising during the next few weeks in wave 5 towards a level of 0.348. The
indicated target is at the resistance level.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][15]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][16] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysis][17]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/24-08-2020X/BTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=f51c0cabb743fbd1bc8bddf1778e0d4f
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/24-08-2020X/BTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=5b4d38e55b6265250f7750563365a4c7
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/24-08-2020X/ETHUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=34f90aec29f8eeef6eb8834474cd3cb4
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/24-08-2020X/ETHUSDH8.png?w=30&s=8ab05c3ff17060cbef8f8548ad77285a
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/24-08-2020X/LTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=d1e8e928920ecbe99a166936df5d6624
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/24-08-2020X/LTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=125a80846b055ee6a538dd13833e2426
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/24-08-2020X/EOSUSDH8.png?w=30&s=a286204236541870f5e56c9b24087bc3
   12. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/24-08-2020X/XRPUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=9caeb95440fd24f4f6740ee2377c1ba3
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/24-08-2020X/XRPUSDH8.png?w=30&s=7e7a1cfe8ccbf629714a9d4068555941
   15. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-08-24&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   16. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-08-24&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/1-elliott-waves-weekly-forecast-for-[BTC](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/who-is-the-creator-of-bitcoin/)usd-ethusd-ltcusd-eosusd-xrpusd_1000x545.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1480cfce2406c81b57be8a77076342f1