+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-25"
description = "US dollar price forecast September 25 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast September 25 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-25

2020-09-25

Dollar muddies the water. Forecast for 25.09.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The [EURUSD][1] is likely to be falling until the situation with the
fiscal stimulus is clear, and the market turmoil eases. How to trade
under the current conditions? A [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Fundamental US dollar forecast for the month

Uncertainty is the primary driver for the US dollar now. Nobody knows if
the Democrats and the Republicans will agree on the fiscal stimulus if
the [S&P 500][2] will enter a bear market, or how severe the second wave
of the pandemic will be. Naturally, safe havens are mostly demanded
under such conditions. Even the Japanese yen can't outperform the
greenback as a safe-haven currency. It is evident from a sharp change of
the JPY correlation with the volatility of the US stock indexes. The
trends of the stock indices usually indicate [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s' risk appetite.

### JPY correlation with the US stock market volatility

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg._

Democrats prepare a new fiscal stimulus plan of $2.4 billion, which is
less than the $ 3.4 billion adopted by the House of Representatives in
August, but still far from the amount that the Republicans would accept
($ 1.5 trillion). Furthermore, the [S&P 500][2] couldn't close the
trading session below 10% of the all-time high. These circumstances have
weakened the dollar. The USD bounced down from the two-month high, but
the dollar bulls are still going to attack. The Republicans and the
Democrats are unlikely to find a compromise soon. The proportion of
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s who assume that US stocks will fall over the next six months
increased from 40% in August to 46% in September. It signals that the
correction won't end soon.

The greenback has many benefits yet. Despite a sharp cut in the federal
funds rate, it still has a yield advantage, being outperformed only by
the New Zealand dollar among the G10 currencies. Under the current
uncertainty, the US dollar doesn't have strong rivals. It is evident not
only from the yen's weakness but also from the crash of gold, which is a
traditional safe-haven asset. Furthermore, the demand for the dollar in
the foreign-exchange turnover is exceptionally high. According to the
Bank for International Settlement, the volume of the greenback in Forex
transactions exceeded the euro's turnover by two times and the yen by
five times in 2019.

### Dynamics of foreign-exchange turnover



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

In addition to the uncertainty, another driver for the [EURUSD][1]
correction is Citi's recommendation to reduce the proportion of European
equities in the portfolios and to increase the share of the emerging
markets' assets. Allegedly, the forecasts for the corporate profits are,
most of all, overestimated for the euro-area companies. Moreover, the
euro-area economic surprise index could turn negative soon.

###  **Dynamics of economic surprise index**



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

### Weekly trading plan for EURUSD

In my opinion, the [EURUSD][1] is likely to continue falling. The
uncertainty won't ease until there is positive [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) about the COVID-19
vaccines and the negotiations between the Republicans and the Democrats.
It is a good chance for the euro bulls to buy the euro for $1.16 and
$1.15.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-muddies-the-water-forecast-for-25092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-muddies-the-water-forecast-for-25092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus