+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-04"
description = "Forecast for USD price for 4 June 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for USD price for 4 June 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-04

2021-06-04

Dollar is [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) trading. Forecast as of 04.06.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Theory is useless without practice. Theoretical books say lower
unemployment results in higher employment rates, but everything may go
the other way round when demand is already high and supply isn't
adequate. How will that affect the [EURUSD][1]? Let’s check it out and
make a trading plan.

## Weekly fundamental forecast for dollar

It's hard to expect that the market will continue trending if it got
involved in [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) trading. First, expectations of an inflation boost in
the US and the eurozone strengthened the dollar and the euro. Then, they
were sold out. Will a report on the US labor market be an exception? The
greenback has already been bought based on rumors: the [EURUSD][1]
collapsed to the bottom of figure 21. Is it time to sell the USD on
facts?

ADP's good jobless claims and employment statistics for the private
sector were a formal reason for the USD to consolidate. Job claims
updated the post-pandemic minimum five consecutive times, reaching the
value of 385 thousand; hiring rates grew by 978 thousand, a one-year
high. The labor market is recovering, and a Bloomberg non-farm payrolls
forecast of 650 thousand no longer looks unreachable. In Forex, they are
whispering about +800 thousand.

### Jobless claims in the USA



 _Source: Bloomberg._

Economists’ estimates vary from 335 thousand to 1 million. Optimists
count on warm weather, crowds of fully-vaccinated adults willing to
resume travel and socialize, and fewer pandemic restrictions. Pessimists
say health problems, obligations to look after children, and raising
unemployment compensation cool job seekers down. According to the
National Federation of Independent Business, nearly 48% of firms had job
vacancies in May, and 34% of firms had to raise wages. Those are one-
year highest figures.

Companies with job vacancies and bigger compensation



 _Source: Bloomberg._

So, a unique situation is developing in the US economy: employment
growth will most likely give rise to slower inflation, contrary to the
theory. According to the Phillips curve, the lower unemployment drops,
the more money people have and spend. That results in higher prices. In
the current situation, the faster job vacancies are filled, the likelier
the chance is that employers won't have to raise wages to attract new
workers.

The Fed must understand that well as it needs good hiring rates to
maintain its authority. Otherwise, inflation will remain high, and the
6.5% GDP forecast won't become true. Markets will also note later that
theoretical postulates haven't been observed. Now, they think too much
about good hiring rates that will force the Fed to scale back QE and
bring about bond yields growth and USD consolidation. In fact, positive
labor statistics will allow the Fed to act as it planned.

### Weekly trading plan for [EURUSD][1]

So, employment rates topping a consensus forecast will result in the
[EURUSD][1]'s temporary fall. Then, fact-based sales of USD will take
place. Traders may buy the euro on the [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) and pullbacks from support
levels at 1.2085 and 1.205.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true