+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-08"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 08.09.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 08.09.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

September 8, 2020

September 8, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 08.09.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil price is being corrected in the middle-term uptrend. The price is
now approaching the trend key support [37.34 – 36.72]. After the support
zone is tested, I recommend looking for a buy pattern and enter
purchases with the target at the high of August + Target Zone 6 [49.17 —
48.42].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 08.09.2020][1]

The oil prices a falling in the short-term downtrend, the downside
target is the lower Target Zone [37.34 – 36.72]. When the price reaches
the target, we shall see if sellers break out the support zone and
consolidate the price below. If they do, the next target will be Gold
Zone.

I recommend entering sell trades on the correction in the strong
resistance zones:

  1. In the broken-out Intermediary Zone [40.44 - 40.13].
  2. In the new corrective Intermediary Zone [41.85 - 41.54].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 08.09.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [40.44 - 40.13]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [37.34 - 36.72]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [41.85 - 41.54]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [37.34 - 36.72]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

The gold price broke out the triangle downside. The price consolidated
below the support. Now, we expect the price to continue falling with the
first target at the low of August of 26, and next, the low of August 12.

According to the margin zones, if traders consolidate the price below
Target Zone [1922.4 - 1913.1], the target will be in Target Zone 2
[1829.4 — 1820.1].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 08.09.2020][4]

Let us explore the short-term trend. The short-term trend is down. The
sell target is the lower Target Zone [1899.4 – 1890.1]. I suggest
entering sell trades on gold according to the patterns in Additional
Zone [1941.9 – 1939.6]. If there is a deep correction up, we shall enter
sell trades in Intermediary Zone [1967.5 – 1962.8].

It will be relevant to buy gold if the short-term trend turns up. It
will occur if the price breaks out IZ and the US session closes it above
the zone.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 08.09.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] trading ideas for today:**

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1941.9 - 1939.6]. TakeProfit: 1917.1, Target Zone [1899.4 - 1890.1]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1967.5 - 1962.8]. TakeProfit: 1917.1, Target Zone [1899.4 - 1890.1]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

EUR/USD is testing the key support of the middle-term uptrend [1.1811 –
1.1791]. Traders can’t yet break it out, so, we continue looking for
purchases according to the pattern.

It will be relevant to sell the euro when two US sessions close the
price below level 1.1791.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 08.09.2020][7]

The euro is trading down in the short-term downtrend. Sellers are trying
to break out Target Zone [1.1811 – 1.1791], strong support. Until the
zone is broken out, the euro is not likely to fall deeper.

It is also clear from the chart that the trading range is getting
narrower. The resistance is Additional Zone [1.1836 – 1.1831]. Enter
sell trades in the resistance zone according to the patterns with the
first target in TZ, the second downside target is the low of September
4.

If Additional Zone is broken out upside, the correction could drive the
price higher, into Intermediary Zone [1.1891 - 1.1881]. If so, we shall
also enter sell trades in the zone according to the pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 08.09.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1836 - 1.1831]. TakeProfit: 1.1782. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1891 - 1.1881]. TakeProfit: 1.1782. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 08.09.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_080920_1.png?w=30&s=3e6e6e6d0f2c1d27620afc0d1e90368f
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_080920_2.png?w=30&s=17cdc5d270c18becc5465f2670710be0
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_080920_1.png?w=30&s=8769e0ef66c6e8dfea74f6ce86538902
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_080920_2.png?w=30&s=21035e7bcc6c03a1ddef94cd7749a05d
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_080920_1.png?w=30&s=1a911b3a43f266001baf708ce1330c42
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_080920_2.png?w=30&s=d5f1098e86b33a998e75389807d8bad9
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-08092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-08092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_107.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=2091482bc59eb0f07f41528d61bd96e0