+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-08"
description = "GBP/USD forecast for 08.09.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "GBP/USD forecast for 08.09.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

September 8, 2020

September 8, 2020

GBP/USD forecast: Pound got a cherry on topDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental Pound forecast for today

### Financial markets are shocked, as the UK could override the Brexit
withdrawal agreement

In bad divorcees, mutual reproaches are easily replaced by bad threats.
Boris Johnson seems to cancel the legal agreement with the EU in areas
including Northern Ireland customs that he signed last year. The issues
on the Irish border made Theresa May retire. Boris Johnson managed to
sign a deal at the last moment which sent the pound up to $1.35 in
December. And now, there is another act of the drama. The agreement
achieved with such a difficulty could be now canceled. Is it a bluff?

According to a Financial Times source familiar with the matter, London
is developing the internal market bill, according to which, filling in
customs declarations for the supply of goods from Northern Ireland will
become optional. Moreover, particular UK officials will now decide if
the UK should notify Brussels of any state-aid decisions. So, the EU-UK
agreement is now threatened, which increases the risk of the trade
negotiations collapse and a no-deal Brexit.

So, it natural that the pound’s six-month and three-month volatility
soared to the highest levels since June and May respectively. The Brexit
topic is hot again, and the sterling doesn’t seem to be prepared for it.
Credit Agricole believes that the escalation of the EU-UK political
battle should send the [GBP/USD][1] down to 1.2. According to Nomura,
the talks about the UK internal market bill are a cherry on top. It says
the UK used to violate the agreements, including the uncoordinated
doubling of fishing quotas and state aid regimes. For some time the
market ignored this, and now, it is time to pay. Nomura projects the
[EUR/GBP][2] surge to 0.95-0.98 in case of a no-deal Brexit.

However, there are also optimists among Forex analysts. Goldman Sachs,
Morgan Stanley, JP Morgan still bet on reaching an agreement between the
UK and the EU. They refer to the last-year situation when the sterling’s
outlook was quite grim, but everything ended up positively. Moreover,
the pound risk reversals signal that the situation is not as bad this
year as it was in 2019.

###  **Dynamics of pound risk reversals**

![LiteForex: GBP/USD forecast for 08.09.2020][3]

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

I do not know what Boris Jonson plans, saying that everything will be
good even without a deal with the EU. The UK economic recession resulted
from the pandemic eased the concerns about a no-deal Brexit. But the UK
economy should slide even deeper in this case.  Michael Saunders, a
member of the Bank of England's Monetary Policy, warns that the end of
the financial aid programs will increase the risk of the UK unemployment
surge to the fifty-year high, setting back the UK economic recovery. If
so, the BoE may further loosen its monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/).

However, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s worry about some other matters now. If London
abandons the agreements with the EU signed in 2019 and publishes the
internal market bill, the [GBP/USD][1] could drop to 1.3 and lower. I
recommend holding down the [short trades][4] entered on the breakout of
the support levels of 1.33 and 1.3245 or taking profits if the
information published by Financial Times is not relevant.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

![GBP/USD forecast: Pound got a cherry on top][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURGBP&returnUrl=true&
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/risk-reversal-pound-08-09-20.jpg?w=30&s=a176de9da5fe3aa46679eb5f037b7e96
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/forecast-for-gbpusd-pound-is-threatened-with-taxes/
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gbpusd-forecast-pound-got-a-cherry-on-top&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gbpusd-forecast-pound-got-a-cherry-on-top&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-gbpusd-08-09-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=34c638453d79c7a0e1612e8727519255