+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-07"
description = "US dollar price forecast 07 May 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 07 May 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-05-07

2021-05-07

Is dollar hysterical? Forecast as of 07.05.2021Dmitri Demidenko

While [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are scared that the taper tantrum of 2013 will repeat,
the Fed draws parallels with the events of 2001 and 2007, when the
bursting bubbles in the stock and real estate markets triggered crises.
How does it affect the [EURUSD][1]? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and
make up a trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

Investors continue discussing the events of 2013 when tapering of the QE
in the US resulted in turmoil in financial markets. Some traders hedge
against the risks of a taper tantrum by selling Treasuries, some believe
it will not happen in 2021 and buy stocks. The first ones are getting
fewer, the number the second increases. Therefore, the stock indexes hit
new all-time highs, and the [EURUSD][1] grows.

Investors have prepared for the US jobs report. The consensus forecast
of Reuters experts suggests that nonfarm payrolls likely increased by
978,000 jobs in April after rising by 916,000 in March. If the forecast
is met, the job losses will decrease from 20.7 million at the peak of
the recession to 7.5 million. Markets are getting more and more
convinced that the jobs report will be strong. However, the signs of the
employment rebound are a double-edged sword. This process could improve
risk appetite and allow the [S&P 500][2] to rally further. On the other
hand, growing risks of the inflation surge could push Treasury yields up
and overvalued stocks down.

Judging by the March events, when the rally in the Treasury yields did
not worry the FOMC officials, the growth of stock indices, on the
contrary, may encourage the Fed to take action. According to Dallas Fed
President Robert Kaplan, imbalances in financial markets can lead to the
fact that the issues of winding down QE will need to be raised sooner
rather than later. The Fed, of course, welcomes the improved financial
conditions, allowing the economy to recover faster, but notes in its
latest report that if risk appetite falls from elevated levels, a number
of assets could be vulnerable to deep and sudden drops, which could
stress the financial system.

### Dynamics of US financial conditions

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

While [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are concerned about the repeat of the 2013 taper
tantrum, the Fed could express concern about the repetition of the
events of 2001 and 2007, when bursting bubbles in the tech companies’
stocks and housing markets triggered economic crises. If so, the
[EURUSD][1] bulls should be afraid of the growth in the US stock indexes
rather than the drop! The financial market response to the US jobs
report for April could give a clue on the EURUSD future trends.

Formally, the rehearsal was held the day before, when the drop in the
number of new claims for unemployment benefits to the lowest level since
the beginning of the pandemic led to the growth of the [Dow Jones][3]
index to another all-time high and a drop in Treasury yields. The EURUSD
surged to the upper boundary of the earlier indicated trading range of
[1.2-1.208][4].

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

If the US strong jobs report allows the [S&P 500][2] to hit a new all-
time high, the euro could go up to a level above $1.21. On the one hand,
the higher US stock indexes rise, the sooner the Fed will start
discussing tapering of the US QE. After all, it is just a presumption.
As I [noted earlier][5], it is relevant to buy as long as the
[EURUSD][1] is trading above 1.2045.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=YM&returnUrl=true
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-gave-in-to-temptation-forecast-as-of-05052021/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-fooled-the-bears-forecast-as-of-03052021/