+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-05"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 05.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 05.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 5, 2020

May 5, 2020

Dollar is patching up the holesDmitri Demidenko

## The USA needs higher geopolitical risks to lure back the buyers of
Treasuries

The stabilization of the US stock market is not the reason to sell the
US dollar. The euphoria about a soon reopening of the US economy has
driven the US stock indexes too high. A gloomy reality will make the
speculators exit longs and take the profits. This may result from the
escalation of the US-China trade war. Following the pandemic and the
economic recession, geopolitical tension is a new shock for the
financial markets. This is a strong barrier to the global economic
recovery, the uncertainty doesn’t ease, and so [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s won’t get rid
of the safe-haven assets.

The strongest market moves occur when the fear is replaced by greed, or
the euphoria is replaced by the pessimism resulted from the gloomy
reality. The S&P 500 has risen from the March’s low by 30%, and fund
managers invested about $1.1 trillion in the money market, having
boosted their asset holdings up to the record highs. However, according
to Societe Generale's research, the typical bear market has been slower
to rebound from the bottom, averaging an 11% gain in the first three
months after the shock. It is now rising much faster, which I believe to
result from the huge fiscal and monetary stimuli and the hopes for the
V-shaped rebound of the US economy. The latter is, however, getting less
and less likely.

 **Dynamics of the assets held by the money market funds**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 05.05.2020][1]

 _Source: Reuters_

According to P Morgan, risk assets will be 10% down if the US increases
the tariffs on China’s imports, and this will be just the beginning of
the end. Does Donald Trump need it? The guilty has been found, however,
the US-China trade war escalation will weigh on the US stock indexes,
which the US president believes to demonstrate his political performance
and his success as the president.

On the other hand, the US needs to cover the budget deficit. The huge
fiscal stimulus costs a lot. The U.S. Treasury Department plans to
increase the issuance of government bonds to $3 trillion in the third
quarter, which is much higher than the previous record borrowing for a
full fiscal year of $1.8 trillion in 2009. In 2019, it was $1.28
trillion. To attract foreign [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s, the U.S. needs a high demand for
safe-havens and a stable local currency. The first goal should be
reached through continuous uncertainty and an increase in volatility.
The second task can be solved as Donald Trump is back again to the
[policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) of a strong dollar, pursued by former US administrations.

 **Dynamics of CBOE volatility**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 05.05.2020][2]

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

While the greenback is searching for reasons to launch a new attack, the
euro is pressed down by pessimistic forecasts for the euro-area economic
performance and the expectations for German’s Federal Constitutional
Court's decision on the euro-area QE. According to the median gauge of
the 57 economists surveyed by the ECB, the euro-area GDP will be 5.5%
down in 2020, and it will only rebound by 4.3% in 2021. UniCredit
believes the German judges will approve the ECB's QE plan. If it isn’t
so, the Eurozone will face a disaster. The [EUR/USD][3] has been down
below 1.0965, which means the bulls are weak. Will the euro bears go
ahead?

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar is patching up the holes][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/etf-money-05-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=36979f9ac951748d2b284497ecad394f
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/vix-05-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=c664e4e969ebd8685a77dbe85a1214e5
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-is-patching-up-the-holes&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-is-patching-up-the-holes&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-05-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=682602dd85bc0bb7b9152d0d66ad2f68