+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-05"
description = "Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and Flats."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and Flats."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 5, 2020

May 5, 2020

NeoWave. Part 16. Extended rules of logic for Zigzags and Flat
correctionsMikhail Hypov

## I will cover the extended rules of logic to analyze zigzags and flat
corrections, according to NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely

Dear friends!

In the [previous training article][1], I covered basic and advanced
rules of logic to analyze triangle patterns.

If you are not familiar with the NeoWave theory, I suggest you should
read the all the articles in the NeoWave series, based on Glenn Neely’s
book Mastering Elliott Wave, starting from the first one:

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][2].

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels. ][3]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][5]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][6]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][10].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][11].

[NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][12]

[NeoWave. Part 12. Impulsions and the rules to analyze impulse wave
patterns. ][13]

[NeoWave. Part 13. Corrections. Rules to identify a correction.][14]

[NeoWave. Part 14. Triangles. Rules to identify triangles.][15]

[NeoWave. Part 15. Basic and advanced rules of logic to analyze
triangles ][1]

All the material in this article is based on my own cryptocurrency
trading experience and Glenn Neely’s book Mastering Elliott Wave.

I covered basic rules to analyze the zigzags and flats in [Part 13 of
the NeoWave series][14]. In this article, I will explain the extended
rules of logic to analyze corrections, namely, zigzags and flats.

### Extended rules of logic applied to a Zigzag pattern

Remember, a group of waves is a zigzag pattern when its C-wave is
between 61.8% and 161.8% of the A-wave. Let us study three extended
rules.

### Wave C is the longest

This type of Zigzag has the weakest implications of all if it is moving
down, and the strongest if it is moving up. It is not likely to be
completely retraced unless the Zigzag completes a corrective phase or
the next wave (of the same degree) is more complex and time-consuming.

### Wave C is equal to wave

Anything could happen after this pattern. This zigzag may or may not be
completely retraced.

### Wave C is shorter than wave A

This pattern is almost always completely retraced unless it is followed
by an x-wave.

![LiteForex: Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and
Flats.][16]

Let us see how the extended rules of logic work on the example of a
zigzag pattern. In our case, it is clear that wave C is shorter than
wave A. Therefore, it should be completely retraced unless it is an
x-wave. In fact, the beginning of the pattern (blue horizontal line) is
reached by the next wave, whose end is marked by the pink horizontal
line.

### Elongated zigzag

This pattern most often occurs in terminal impulse patterns and
triangles. Remember, the impulse is terminal when waves 2 and 4 share
some of the same price territories. It could rarely occur as any segment
of a contracting triangle (except the E-wave) or any leg of an expanding
triangle (except the A-wave). It shouldn’t be completely retraced by the
next wave of the same degree.

![LiteForex: Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and
Flats.][17]



The chart displays an elongated zigzag. Its beginning is marked by the
horizontal pink line. The next wave (the blue horizontal line) doesn’t
reach the beginning of the zigzag (so, it is not fully retraced).

### Double zigzag

This pattern is composed of two successive zigzag connected by the
x-wave. If this pattern is completely retraced, it is most likely the
last segment of the 5th extension terminal. In other cases, the pattern
is not retraced.

![LiteForex: Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and
Flats.][18]

The above chart displays a double zigzag. The next wave (the blue
horizontal line) finishes much earlier than the beginning of the pattern
( pink horizontal line). Therefore, this zigzag is not a 5th extension
terminal.

### Triple zigzag

A triple zigzag (the pattern composed of three successive zigzags
connected with the linking z-waves). Remember, x-waves are linking waves
that join simple corrective patterns in more complex formations). A
triple zigzag is usually the longest segment of a terminal or a
triangle. Triple zigzags feature the following regularities.

  * If its movement is downward, it implies the market is currently very weak. If its movement is upward, the market is currently strong.
  * When a triple zigzag is a part of a Terminal pattern, it should definitely be the extended segment.
  * If it is a part of a triangle, it is the largest segment of the triangle.
  * If it is a part of a flat or contracting triangle, a triple zigzag can never ****be completely retraced by the pattern which immediately follows.

![LiteForex: Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and
Flats.][19]

As a triple zigzag is extremely rare on the [bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/) chart, I depicted a
triple triangle schematically on the chart. As you see that this pattern
is composed of three successive zigzags connected with the x-waves. The
blue horizontal line marks the final point of the wave immediately after
the zigzag, the pink line marks the beginning of the triple zigzag. As
the end of the next wave doesn’t reach the beginning of the zigzag (i.e.
it is not completely retraced) we can presume that it is a part of a
flat or a contracting triangle.

### Extended rules of logic to analyze a flat pattern

Remember, I covered the advanced rules of logic for flats in detail in
[Part 13][14] of the NeoWave theory. I will now cover the extended rules
to analyze flat corrections.

### B-failure

A B-failure is the most neutral __pattern existing under the WaveTheory.
Nothing, in particular, can be expected following this pattern since
virtually anything is possible.

![LiteForex: Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and
Flats.][20]

The above chart displays a B-failure flat pattern, as the B wave is a
little less than 61.8% of wave A.

![LiteForex: Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and
Flats.][21]

The C-wave is about 100% of the weak B-wave. So, there is a B-failure
and we can’t expect anything special after this wave.

### Common

This is also quite a neutral pattern and doesn’t imply any particular
future market action. However, it is more definitely more powerful than
a Zigzag.

![LiteForex: Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and
Flats.][22]

The above chart displays a common flat with a normal wave B, as it is a
little more than 81% of wave A.![LiteForex: Extended rules of logic for
corrections. Zigzags and Flats.][23]

Wave C is between 100% and 138.2% of normal wave B. Therefore, there is
a common flat. It doesn’t imply any particular following market action.

### Irregular

This pattern is quite rare and abnormal. It creates a state of self-
contradiction. Namely, when the B-wave of a pattern exceeds the
beginning of wave A, it demonstrates the power of the trend of one
higher degree. When the C-wave turns around and exceeds the end of wave
B, it nullifies the power exhibited by the B-wave creating an illogical
condition. Such market behavior is usually observed in Terminal impulses
or triangles, not in flats. That is why it is called irregular.

![LiteForex: Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and
Flats.][24]

The above chart schematically displays a flat correction. Wave B is a
little more than 101% of wave A.

![LiteForex: Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and
Flats.][25]

Wave C is between 100% and 161.8% of wave A, it also exceeds the
beginning of wave B. Therefore, it is an irregular flat. According to
the extended rules fo logic, it is likely to be a part of a larger
impulse pattern or a triangle.

### Elongated flat

This is one of the most deceiving patterns in the NeoWave theory. This
pattern occurs almost always in triangles. It occasionally can be found
in terminal impulse patterns. When it is a part of a triangle, it is
almost always the entire segment of the triangle. In rare instances, it
will occur as a smaller segment of a complex correction which is the
entire leg of a triangle.

![LiteForex: Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and
Flats.][26]

The above chart schematically depicts a flat correction. The B-wave is a
little more than 101% of wave A.

![LiteForex: Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and
Flats.][27]

Wave C is more than 161.8% of wave A, it also exceeds the beginning of
the B-wave. Therefore, it is an elongated flat. According to the
extended rules of logic, it is likely to be a segment of a triangle. In
rare instances, it can be a part of a terminal impulse.

### Double flat

These are not very common patterns. The pattern to follow may completely
retrace the double flat unless the double flat finishes with a severe
C-wave failure, or it concludes a larger formation, such as any
variation of a terminal impulse. The move following a double flat is
usually quite fast and intensive.

![LiteForex: Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and
Flats.][28]

The above chart presents a double flat that is composed of two flats
with an x-wave between them. The second formation on the left is not a
severe C-failure. So, the wave following the double flat (the end of
this wave is marked by the horizontal blue line) exceeds the beginning
of the flat correction (the horizontal pink line).

### Triple Flat

Triple flat. These are very rare pattern, so I will hardly find a
practical example of a triple flat on the [bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/) chart. However, it is
important to know that the pattern which follows a triple flat will
completely retrace it only if the triple flat is the last leg of a fifth
extension terminal. In this case, the retracement pattern will be on one
larger degree than the triple flat.

Remember that Elliott waves vary in degree, and each wave of a larger
degree is composed of smaller waves. I have many times described the
wave degrees in the educational articles devoted to the wave theories
developed by Prechter and Williams. If you are not yet familiar with
wave degrees and wave cycles, you can learn about them in [this
article][29].

![LiteForex: Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and
Flats.][30]

The chart displays a triple flat that is three successive flats
connected with x-waves. As it is featured by most such patterns, the
wave following the triple flat (its end is marked by the horizontal blue
line) doesn’t reach the beginning of the triple pattern (the horizontal
pink line), i.e. the triple flat is not completely retraced.

### C-failure

This pattern must be completely retraced by the following market move of
the same degree. If the C-failure completes the corrective phase, the
following impulse wave should be larger than the previous impulse wave
which is moving in the same direction and is of the same degree. If the
C-failure is not the end of the larger correction, the wave to follow is
likely to be the X-wave of a double three running correction, or, in
rare instances, it is the B-wave of a running correction.

![LiteForex: Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and
Flats.][31]

The above chart displays a C-failure (as the C-wave is smaller than the
A-wave). The C-failure is followed by the wave that, according to the
extended rules of logic, reaches the beginning of the C-failure (the
horizontal pink line) and finishes quite higher than it (the horizontal
blue line).

![LiteForex: Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and
Flats.][32]

As this pattern completes a corrective phase, the following impulse wave
should be larger than the previous impulse pattern. This is really so,
as you see from the above chart. I marked the corrective phases with the
blue lines and the impulses – with the yellow lines.

### Irregular failure

This pattern must be completely retraced the following wave. This is
usually the second wave of a trending pattern, which is followed by an
extended third pattern, which is most often 161.8% of the previous
impulse wave.

The next patterns will indicate the power of the countertrend, which is
moving in the opposite direction that they conclude.

![LiteForex: Extended rules of logic for corrections. Zigzags and
Flats.][33]

A flat correction is schematically drawn in the above chart. As the
C-wave is within the channel drawn along with the high and the low of
the A-wave, this correction is an irregular failure. According to the
extended rules of logic, the wave, following the irregular failure,
should completely retrace the pattern. In our example, it not only
retraces the irregular flat but even exceeds it.

That is all so far. In the next educational post, I will finish covering
the extended rules of logic for wave patterns under the NeoWave. I will
describe the exceptions to the rules, and the peculiarities of the wave
labels in the NeoWave theory.

* * *

Take care of yourself and your money!

Subscribe and be the first to read the most up-to-date materials!

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][34]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][35] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![NeoWave. Part 16. Extended rules of logic for Zigzags and Flat
corrections][36]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-15-basic-and-advanced-rules-of-logic-to-analyze-triangles/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b/
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a/
   11. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-10-retracement-rule-6-conditions-b-c-and-d/
   12. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-11-retracement-rule-7/
   13. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-12-impulsions-and-the-rules-to-analyze-impulse-wave-patterns/
   14. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-13-corrections-rules-to-identify-a-correction/
   15. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-14-corrections-triangles-rules-to-identify-triangles/
   16. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=fb7d60fbc4ce77637c04ae18a0be660e
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=02410835eb30a36295192cd91acebae6
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=775d200cb4158e1af2733c36034981cc
   19. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=b499e964c2746f7a1962cebbacc0bd4d
   20. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=f66b7c78366cf82da5d7d9e8ec568120
   21. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=a0052ff9afa743ec5171688abab86523
   22. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=751d44aaf1898ead1d9d8d2fcdba9fec
   23. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=e3c65c136cdad81746798280bc4dd90c
   24. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=725041b56df00cae7d894782a13a2c64
   25. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_10.jpg?w=30&s=865e767ee2a2d5ee952fa32c12dd88c6
   26. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_11.jpg?w=30&s=0367958b4a578152d3bb8e39c7adbad9
   27. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_12.jpg?w=30&s=7dc8225ec57a97a28d9727bb8542e7b7
   28. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_13.jpg?w=30&s=5d8f4663d821facbf03c97775a76ebfb
   29. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/market-wave-theory-by-robert-prechter-part-2-wave-degrees-and-more-guidelines-of-wave-alternation/
   30. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_14.jpg?w=30&s=2146032177ec83f05e4bbf6715e6408a
   31. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_15.jpg?w=30&s=fcdca086ddadc9b7dd170ddb0a48a5de
   32. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_16.jpg?w=30&s=f98bf931d838fa358fb68d1350ceb658
   33. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_17.jpg?w=30&s=066cc1af6c7e638403ee99740dd40b5c
   34. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-16-extended-rules-of-logic-for-zigzags-and-flat-corrections&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   35. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-16-extended-rules-of-logic-for-zigzags-and-flat-corrections&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   36. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.03/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=b355e1442966f779ef634022b3d0d273