+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-05"
description = "GBPUSD forex forecast for 05.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "GBPUSD forex forecast for 05.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 5, 2020

May 5, 2020

Pound is not lucky in MayDmitri Demidenko

## Seasonal sell-offs are just one bear driver for the GBP/USD among
many

The best monthly rally of the US stocks over the past 33 years has
become the further evidence that the pound is subject to seasonal
regularities. Amid the beginning of the new fiscal year and the capitals
repatriation to the UK in April, the sterling was traditionally quite
strong, over the past decade, the [GBP/USD][1] closed in the red area in
April only in 2018. Since 2000, the pair was down only twice, in 2000
and 2004. The pound’s trend usually changes in May. The GBP on average
lost 2.3% in May in 2010-2019, it lost more than 3%.

 **Dynamics of pound moves in May**

![LiteForex: GBPUSD forex forecast for 05.05.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

In April, the S&P 500 featured a quick rebound, being down rather deep
in March, and the sterling became more responsive to changes in the
global risk appetite, so, the Brexit matters, horrible domestic data or
the expectations of a greater monetary stimulus by the BoE didn’t affect
the pound’s bull market. In May, those bear factors for the [GBP/USD][1]
gain back the relevance. London demands full control over the coastal
waters and doesn’t want to accept the EU rules in the sphere of
environmental and labor law and government assistance. Brussels says the
Brexit talks have stalled. The UK demands sovereignty and isn’t willing
to extend the transition period, which may result in new import tariffs
in 2021 and hit the UK economy that is already weak.

Boris Johnson’s government is likely to boost the size of the fiscal
stimulus, and the Bank of England will have to boost the QE pace to
cover the increasing volume of the government bonds issuance. In March,
the central bank announced the launch of the QE program of £200 billion
and has bought bonds worth £70 since then. With the former asset
purchasing pace, the BoE may end the QE in June. Unless it increases the
purchase volume now, or, at least hints at such a step in the future,
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s will escape from the UK bond market, which will push up the
bond yields. An increase in the borrowing costs will delay the GDP
recovery. Andrew Bailey and his colleague will have to boost the asset-
buying program by at least another £200, and the expectations for the
BoE monetary expansion press the pound down.

Besides, the growing risk of the US-China trade war escalation weigh on
the US stocks and increases the demand for the dollar as a safe-haven.
Geopolitics, lower risk appetite, unsettled Brexit matters, and the
expectations for the BoE’s monetary easing, as well as the seasonal
factor, encourage speculators to increase net shorts on the pound to the
highest levels since December.

 **Dynamics of speculative net positions on GBP**

![LiteForex: GBPUSD forex forecast for 05.05.2020][3]

 _Source: Reuters._

In my opinion, the [GBP/USD][1] bulls were going ahead despite the
sterling’s flaws amid the substantial rally of the US stock indexes. In
April, the GBP has lost the support of the US stocks, which reminds
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s about Brexit and BoE’s monetary expansion. Therefore, if the
pound breaks out the supports at $1.235 and $1.229, it will be relevant
to sell the pound versus the US dollar.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

![Pound is not lucky in May][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/etf-money-05-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=54b666abb3c1ddc2a062bcc8861ebb75
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/pound-positions-05-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=34b9508d25169bd50a44ef1d3fe85091
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-is-not-lucky-in-may&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-is-not-lucky-in-may&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-gbpusd-05-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=fb57d15ca48cc4120b3d2be553271fe2