+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-05"
description = "Pound price forecast 5 May 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 5 May 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-05-05

2021-05-05

Brexit was not enough for Pound. Forecast as of 05.05.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

Following Brexit, the UK could face Scexit. Cutting off economic ties
with Scotland could weigh on the sterling. Let us discuss the Forex
outlook and make up a [GBPUSD][1] trading plan.

## Weekly GBPUSD fundamental forecast

The pound is quite responsive to politics. In 2014, the sterling was
being rocked by talks about Scotland's independence; Brexit was pressing
the GBP down from 2016 till 2020. Now, a new suggested referendum on
Scotland independence sets back the [GBPUSD][1] bulls. One thing is to
withdraw from a union created in the 1970s; another matter is when the
union has existed since the 1700s. However, the GBPUSD is rising despite
the growing risks of the Scottish National Party's victory in the
elections on May 6. The sterling is supported by monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/).

Most Bloomberg experts do not expect any changes from the Bank of
England at the April MPC meeting, suggesting the BOE interest rate
should remain at 0.1%, and the QE target of £150 billion should remain
in 2021. However, BofA Merrill Lynch, Credit Suisse, ING, and Mizuho
predict that the regulator will report a change in the weekly pace of
asset purchases down from the current £4.4 billion. If it does not, the
quantitative easing program will be exhausted by the beginning of
November. It makes no sense to boost the QE amid rapid vaccination and
the opening of the UK economy.

### Dynamics of weekly pace of UK QE



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The [GBPUSD][1] bulls are inspired by the example of the Bank of Canada,
which supported the Canadian dollar strengthening by the announcement of
the Canadian QE tapering. However, reducing the QE weekly pace without
changing the total amount of the quantitative easing program is not the
same case as in Canada. This is a less significant growth driver for the
sterling than the gradual finishing of the QE.

As for the Scotland independence referendum, it may not occur at all.
First, this requires that the nationalists win 80 out of 129 seats in
parliamentary elections. Second, Prime Minister Boris Johnson is
threatening to block the application. He understands what results could
yield the Scexit. There are different sorts of [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s’ concerns
associated with Scexit, from a new recession to a 10% sterling drop. The
situation is fueled by banks. Credit Agricole recommends selling the
[GBPUSD][1] amid political risks; Barclays suggests buying the
[EURGBP][2] amid the increased volatility ahead of the elections.

After all, even if the Scottish National Party manages to implement the
idea of a popular vote for independence, the referendum will not take
place until 2024. Citi estimates Scexit's risks at 35% over the next 10
years. It is too long a period to influence the sterling exchange rate
immediately.

I believe the [GBPUSD][1] trend will still depend on the BoE monetary
[policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) in the short term. Hawkish actions of the Bank of England,
including the improvement of forecasts for GDP and inflation and a
reduction in the weekly pace of asset purchases under the QE, could send
the pound up above $1.39. The matter is whether the sterling will
consolidate above this level if the Treasury yields surge amid strong US
jobs report.

### Weekly [GBPUSD][1] trading plan

The pound may soon be jumping up and down. Therefore, it is relevant to
hold [GBPUSD][1] longs entered at [level 1.3835][3] and add up if the
price breaks out the resistance at 1.3925. If bulls fail to consolidate
above this level, it could be a reason to sell the pair.



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURGBP&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/pound-is-into-asking-questions-forecast-as-of-28042021/