+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-06"
description = "Polish zloty price forecast 6 July 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Polish zloty price forecast 6 July 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-07-06

2021-07-06

Giants and dwarfs in Forex. Forecast as of 06.07.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Inflation in Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic is the highest in
Europe. However, if Budapest and Prague raise rates, then Warsaw is in
no hurry to do so. What does this mean for [USDPLN][1] and [EURPLN][2]?
Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Quarterly Polish zloty fundamental forecast

Giants and dwarfs exist not only in space but in the world economy as
well. Small states occasionally complain about large ones, but this does
not prevent them from benefiting from close ties with the latter.
According to the head of the Bank of Poland, Adam Glapiński, taking
advantage of a global or regional exorbitant privilege, larger central
banks are shifting the burden of exchange rate adjustments to smaller
ones. Warsaw is forced to react to the European QE with currency
interventions to prevent [EURPLN][2] bears from feeling confident.

The sign of a strong economy is a strong currency. Investors should be
well aware of this statement. However, the Dwarf who has close ties with
the Giant's strong economy often benefits from it. This was the case in
2020, when the Australian dollar was actively growing because China,
unlike most countries in the world, avoided a recession. This was the
case in the first half of 2021 when the Canadian dollar became the
leader among the G10, driven by expectations of explosive growth in US
GDP. This is happening now, after the opening of the economy of Eastern
Europe and the imminent boom in the eurozone economy. Perhaps the main
side effect is the fact that the rate of acceleration of inflation in
Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic is the highest on the continent.

If Budapest and Prague are not going to put up with the acceleration of
consumer prices, being the first in the EU to raise key interest rates,
then Warsaw is still hesitating. According to Adam Glapiński, high CPI
values are temporary. Inflation in Poland accelerated to 4.7% in May and
then stalled to 4.4% in June, but acceleration risks are still high. The
head of the central bank believes that if time factors are removed from
the indicator, it will return to the target of 2.5%.

### Dynamics of rates and inflation in Poland

 _Source: Trading Economics._

I can understand the National Bank of Poland. If the regulator started
tightening its monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), like the central banks of Hungary or the
Czech Republic, the Polish zloty would surge, and no interventions would
stop the [EURPLN][2] bears. If so, the Polish exporters would suffer,
which the central bank doesn’t want. In the current situation, the
Polish central bank’s FX interventions can be justified by the ECB's
pandemic emergency purchase program aimed at weakening the euro. The
National Bank of Poland also used the QE to support the Polish economy
during the pandemic, but the quantitative easing accounted only for 6%
of the country’s GDP. It is a drop in the ocean amid the ECB’s QE
programs, whose volumes are comparable to the third part of the euro-
area economy.

### Quarterly [USDPLN][1] and [EURPLN][2] trading plan

Words are not actions. The Polish zloty buyers hope that the NBP will
change its views on the monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) and raise the interest rates.
Among the arguments for are a surge in wages (+7.8%) and producer
prices, as well as the memories about hyperinflation, pushing the
inflation expectations up. If the central bank takes a step forward
towards monetary tightening, the [EURPLN][2] could drop to 4.45 or even
4.41.

Nonetheless, if the National Bank of Poland remains passive after such a
giant as the Fed has changed its stance, the [USDPLN][1] should continue
the rally towards 3.88 and 3.93. My recommendation is to buy the pair.



## Price chart of USDPLN in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDPLN&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURPLN&returnUrl=true