+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-02"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 2, 2020

July 2, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.07.2020Alex Rodiоnov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil is trading in the middle-term uptrend. The price is again
approaching Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. If the zone is broken out,
the next buy target will be Target Zone 6 [49.17 — 48.42].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.07.2020][1]

Oil short-term trend is up. On June 29, the price broke out Additional
Zone [39.06 – 38.87] and drew a 1-2-3 pattern to buy. Yesterday, the
price was corrected to the 50% retracement level, giving thus a good
entry point. The price is now rising according to the pattern. The
upside target is the high of June 23.

An alternative scenario: the price turns down from the current levels
and breaks out Additional Zone [38.51 – 38.32]. In this case, there will
be a technical analysis pattern to sell, and we shall look for a sell
entry point with the downside target at the low of June 25.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.07.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today: **

Hold up buy trades entered at level 39.00. TakeProfit: 41.40. StopLoss:
38.69.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold is trading in the middle-term uptrend, whose target is Target Zone
6 [1817.2 - 1811.2]. There will be good prices to buy after the test of
the trend key support [1707.1 — 1698.9].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.07.2020][4]

Gold short-term trend is up. The upside target is Gold Zone [1812.5 –
1808.0].

The price was corrected down to the strong support zone [1768.6 –
1766.6] yesterday. The support wasn’t broken out, the U.S. session
closed the price a little higher than the zone.

Today, expect a buy pattern in Additional Zone. We shall enter buy
trades according to the pattern with an intermediate upside target at
the update of the yesterday’s high.

An alternative gold trading scenario: price breaks out AZ and
consolidates below. If so, we shall sell the precious metal with a
target in Intermediary Zone [1748.1 — 1744.0].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.07.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1768.6 - 1766.6]. TakeProfit: 1788.2, Gold Zone [1812.5 - 1808.0]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. If Additional Zone [1768.6 - 1766.6] is broken out, sell on the retest. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1748.1 - 1744.0]. StopLoss: 1775.2.

* * *

##  **Euro to dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The EURUSD sellers fail to break out level 1.1190 so that the price
could fall deeper. Remember, based on the margin zones methodology, the
euro is trading in the middle-term downtrend with the target in Target
Zone 2 [1.1058 — 1.1040].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.07.2020][7]

Yesterday, the price broke through the local low made on June 25.
Therefore, Intermediary Zone [1.1290 - 1.1281] has partially worked out.
Target Zone [1.1166 – 1.1148] is not yet reached by the price.

When the local low was broken through, the price jumped up as the bulls
took the initiative. The price is now approaching the trend key
resistance [1.1285 – 1.1276].

Expect the test of Intermediary Zone and enter sell trades according to
the pattern in the main scenario. If the resistance is broken out, we
shall tomorrow buy the euro with a target in the upper Target Zone
[1.1385 — 1.1367].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.07.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:  **

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1285 - 1.1276].
TakeProfit: 1.1187, Target Zone [1.1166 - 1.1148]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 02.07.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_020720_1.png?w=30&s=0c89d616c3823a3c0d150a5b3212ab86
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_020720_2.png?w=30&s=06955823e3caeeea9e4f33852b870535
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_020720_1.png?w=30&s=339cf63b2d99b7aad1af749a2dd6a1ee
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_020720_2.png?w=30&s=78469e67abd3b9f8054ce2d9ee41d1f4
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_020720_1.png?w=30&s=aa9d9d97efb842593c558a5b0196d39c
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_020720_2.png?w=30&s=f65e8f39057f6ebf5635e3bf2f4cd768
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-02072020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-02072020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_11_1000x545.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=baaed628228db3f7fe173159157d860e