+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-02"
description = "Gold trading plan"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Gold trading plan"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 2, 2020

July 2, 2020

Global gold price forecast and analysisMikhail Hypov

## XAUUSD: fundamental analysis, structure, and changes in the gold
market supply and demand, Elliott wave patterns, relevant trading
scenarios for gold in the middle-term, and through the end of 2020.

Dear friends,

My previous article was devoted to the valuation method G35, which
suggests the conversion of the asset price to the natural expression of
the gold value at the time of the US gold standard (see the article
[here][1]). I explained the principles of this trading method and major
trading signals. I stressed the importance of analyzing the gold market
and inner market factors of gold performance. This article will deal
with the analysis of the [gold][2] market sentiment, I will also present
my forecast for the next few weeks, months, and even years and gauge the
gold market state in general.

### Fundamental analysis of the gold market

The data for the analysis are taken from the World Gold Council research
(the link to the original source is [here][3]), this organization aims
at developing the [gold ][2]market.

![LiteForex: Gold fundamental and technical analysis. A relevant gold
trading scenario through the year’s end and further outlook. Gold
trading plan.][4]

According to the company’s research data, the gold market structure has
significantly changed in the first quarter of 2000, compared to the same
period in 2019. The change resulted from the drop in the industrial
demand for gold by almost 25%. The decline in the demand was first of
all caused by lower jewelry consumption. However, the damping effect was
produced by increased demand for gold [ETF](https://www.fixpro.org/post/etf-liquidity/)s and similar investment
products. As a result, the total demand for gold was a little up in the
first quarter, by 1038.1 tonnes or 1% of the total world gold
consumption.

In the joint study of The World Gold Council and Oxford Economics,
Global Risk Survey for 2020, the experts suggested the following
scenarios:

  1. The global economic downturn (basic scenario)
  2. The economic recession in the USA
  3. The deep downturn in China’s growth
  4. Economic stabilization and potential expansion of emerging markets

The research shows that the demand for gold at the end of 2020 could
exceed last year’s consumption due to an increased demand for investment
products associated with [gold.][2] However, the investment component is
a rather volatile value. Besides, the growing demand for gold is
satisfied by the increase in gold production an average of 2.4% per
year, as well as an increased supply of gold from the secondary market
suppliers of scrap metal. The growth in this sector in the first quarter
amounted to 42%. I can explain this phenomenon by the increased demand
for pawnshop services in the face of rising unemployment and lower
incomes.

The emerging markets are expected to start recovering in 2021, which
should increase the industrial demand for gold. The jewelry demand
should be also recovering. However, there is expected a sharp drop in
the demand for gold as an investment and risk hedging instrument.
Besides, experts warn about a possible tightening of the monetary
policies of world central banks in 2021 and the next years, which should
weigh on the gold price. In general, experts suggest a decline in both
the supply and the demand for gold to the pre-crisis levels already in
2021. The demand will decline first of all because of a contraction of
the speculative demand for gold, and the total supply will drop because
of a sharp decline in the gold supply form the secondary market.

The major conclusion, which is interesting for us according to this
research, is that the expected [gold price][2] change from 2020 to 2024,
when calculated from year to year, will be negative, around -6.14%,
while a long-term, fundamental outlook for the average growth (at the
horizon of +30 years) for the year is positive, at around 4.59%.

What can we conclude from this research? Fundamentally, the growth of
the [gold ][2]price results only from the multiplied speculative
component of the gold demand. The growth of the total demand for gold is
not significant, and it is compensated with an increased supply. There
is no deficit in the gold market and it will hardly occur. So, there are
no fundamental reasons for the significant gold price rise over the next
few years.

### Gold price technical analysis

Now, let us study the gold price chart using technical analysis and
check if it corresponds to the outlook suggested by the experts, which I
presented in the fundamental analytics section.

![LiteForex: Gold fundamental and technical analysis. A relevant gold
trading scenario through the year’s end and further outlook. Gold
trading plan.][5]

The above chart displays the [XAUUSD][2] with a 12-month timeframe. The
gold [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) data are not full, it starts in 1975. We have already
discussed the [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) of gold pricing, and you know that the gold
standard was abandoned in August 1971. Remember, according to the US
gold standard, one troy ounce was pegged to $35.

So, I will start the analysis of global wave cycles from that date,
taking into account that [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) event.

Having arranged the Fibonacci grid, we see that the third wave of the
Supercycle exceeds 1.618 of the first wave but fails to reach 2.618. In
general, it is a quite typical condition, so we cannot say that the
third wave is extended. Therefore, the impulse wave 5 of the Supercycle
could break though the high made by wave 3, at 1920 USD per troy ounce.

![LiteForex: Gold fundamental and technical analysis. A relevant gold
trading scenario through the year’s end and further outlook. Gold
trading plan.][6]

According to the Elliott wave theory, the fifth wave has a few targets,
it can retrace the third wave from 0.382, in case of a truncation, to
0.618 if wave 5 is normal. As you see from the above chart, the [gold
price][2] has already reached the target suggested by the fifth wave
truncation scenario. The next target is at 50% of the third wave. This
projection doesn’t reach 1900 USD per troy ounce. The Fibonacci level of
0.618 of the third wave is at level 2076.65 USD. As this level is quite
close to the psychologically important level of 2000 USD, we should
consider this factor when setting the growth target. Taking into account
the gold price fundamental analysis data, the current market rise is of
purely speculative nature. It means round numbers will be especially
important, these levels should create a strong resistance to bulls.

![LiteForex: Gold fundamental and technical analysis. A relevant gold
trading scenario through the year’s end and further outlook. Gold
trading plan.][7]

To find out the development limits of the fifth wave of the Supercycle,
let us study the smaller waves within the fifth wave. It is clear from
the chart that there is likely to be developing wave 3, based on the
wave structure (see the blue formation). This wave has already reached
the target, and the further rise will be rather difficult.

![LiteForex: Gold fundamental and technical analysis. A relevant gold
trading scenario through the year’s end and further outlook. Gold
trading plan.][8]

In the above chart, I tried to define the sub-waves within the third
wave, which is blue. This is the five-wave formation that has been
almost complete, where the fifth wave is about to finish, which is
indicated by a strong overbought state, divergence with the TD ROC, and
the advance beyond the yearly candlestick limits. The fifth wave has
already reached its target at 0.618 Fibonacci level of wave 3 in the red
pattern. These multiple bear signals mean a potential correction down in
the fourth wave in the weekly timeframe.

![LiteForex: Gold fundamental and technical analysis. A relevant gold
trading scenario through the year’s end and further outlook. Gold
trading plan.][9]

The scenario of the future gold market correction is outlined in the
chart above. The down move will hardly be below 0.382 of wave 3 of the
blue formation. At the same level, 1563, is the border of the Tolerance
zone according to Thomas DeMark, which makes this level stronger.
Besides, there are support levels within the traded zone of 1550 USD -
1450 USD per troy ounce.

![LiteForex: Gold fundamental and technical analysis. A relevant gold
trading scenario through the year’s end and further outlook. Gold
trading plan.][10]

If we presume that the third wave will create the low at 1563, the
target for the fifth wave, being around 0.618 of wave 3, should be at
the high of the third wave of the Supercycle, which is at level 920 USD.
Therefore, the all-time highs will hardly be broken through.

### Gold trading plan

![LiteForex: Gold fundamental and technical analysis. A relevant gold
trading scenario through the year’s end and further outlook. Gold
trading plan.][11]

As for the short-term gold trading strategy, it is relevant to enter
short positions at the current levels. A stop loss should be above level
1800 USD, and the profit targets for the corrective wave are around the
level of 1616.

The reward/ratio for this trade will be more than 3 to 1. Please do
always correlate this information with your personal trading strategy
and follow your own risk management system, do not forget to correctly
determine the entry volumes. You can enter a short trade here, with the
LiteForex broker. If you haven't yet joined the LiteForex trader team,
it is high time you did! LiteForex is [raffling][12] fabulous prizes to
celebrate its 15th anniversary.  Both beginner and professional traders
may win!

As for the long-term outlook for the [gold ][2]trend, the gold prices
will hardly break through its all-time highs. The fifth wave of the
Supercycle is likely to complete in late 2020 – early 2021, which is
suggested by fundamental factors, including the withdrawal of the
speculative money from the gold market. In my next articles, I will
present a wider [gold price][2] outlook, based on technical analysis and
the global gold market correction.

Subscribe and be the first to read the most up-to-date materials!

* * *

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][13]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][14] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Global gold price forecast and analysis][15]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/g35-asset-valuation-method-through-the-example-of-sp500/
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. www.gold.org/goldhub/portfolio-tools/gold-valuation-framework
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.02/GOLD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=78013d724d7c5566cefd3a05fb6df05b
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.02/GOLD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=e37e56b0b1104563fd3f134ccb2e24fd
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.02/GOLD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=81ca67e28b25d33966afec831ebedb4a
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.02/GOLD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=8f01d01f4cb24b3ff66082fa1508cb98
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.02/GOLD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=b457f03d90a33f34e708517193e15840
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.02/GOLD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=ab618cb5daba59f9c2165e775f071ca8
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.02/GOLD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=d397ab4cf53014153122e188eece982f
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.02/GOLD_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=34744c595862ca964115cf3373783581
   12. www.liteforex.com/contests/dream-draw/
   13. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=global-gold-price-forecast-and-analysis&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   14. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=global-gold-price-forecast-and-analysis&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.02/GOLD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=9212c320f5e365dc178c46c79f1ed5d5