+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-09-15"
description = "New Zealand dollar price forecast 15 September 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "New Zealand dollar price forecast 15 September 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=26.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-09-15

2021-09-15

Kiwi saves market. Forecast as of 15.09.2021Dmitri Demidenko

While the Fed is increasing the uncertainty, not excluding the QE
tapering even against the backdrop of a slowing economy, the RBNZ is as
open to the public as possible. Its intention to raise rates gives an
advantage to the Kiwi bulls. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make
up a trading plan for [NZDUSD][1], [EURNZD][2], [AUDNZD][3] and
[NZDJPY][4].

## Monthly New Zealand dollar fundamental forecast

Don't know what to do? Buy the NZD! The strategy started making money
regularly after the RBNZ unexpectedly refused to raise rates at its
August meeting, introducing a nationwide lockdown. The very next day,
Adrian Orr asked the parliament to apologize his cowardice, and the Kiwi
began to grow rapidly. Money markets expect the RBNZ to do in October
what it did not do two months earlier: raise the cash rate by 25 bps. A
surprise in the form of a 50 bps increase is also possible. Rumors of an
imminent monetary restriction allow the Kiwi to attack its opponents,
even under unfavorable external conditions.

Should we be surprised at the nervousness of financial markets if, in
the context of the spread of the Delta and the slowdown in world
economic growth, the central banks, led by the Fed, are still going to
normalize monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)? Fearing that the Fed, despite weak data on
nonfarm payroll employment and inflation, will announce the QE tapering
on September 22 is one reason for the correction of US stock indices.
The [S&P 500][5] closed in the red in five of the previous six trading
sessions, and Treasury yields fell in response to the slowdown in US
inflation. The stock market is signaling a deterioration in global risk
appetite, which is perceived as a headwind for a kiwi.

### Dynamics of inflation and Treasury yields

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The yield on 10-year New Zealand bonds for the first time since April
2019 exceeded the 2% mark and is the highest among the G10. The
indicator is growing on expectations of RBNZ's monetary restriction and
New Zealand's GDP acceleration by 16.3% YoY in the second quarter. Risky
assets, as a rule, are sold off, during the [S&P 500][5] correction, but
the kiwi's resilience is commendable.

Perhaps buying [NZDUSD][1] ahead of the FOMC meeting, with a possible
hawkish surprise, is not a good idea. However, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s should take a
closer look at the NZD longs against other currencies. In particular,
Nordea believes that outbreaks of COVID-19 are seasonal and recommends
buying the Kiwi and the Aussie against the euro due to the potential
deterioration of the epidemiological situation in Europe in the fourth
quarter.

### Dynamics of [EURAUD][6] and the ratio of COVID-19 cases

 _Source: Nordea Markets_

In such conditions, it makes sense to hold [EURNZD][2] shorts, formed at
the levels of 0.685 and 0.675 in the direction of level 0.651.

The best strategy I have voiced in 2021 is selling [AUDNZD][3]. Despite
the fact that the target of 1.0327, set [in August][7], has already been
reached, a downtrend is likely to develop amid RBNZ's reluctance to
raise rates earlier than 2024. The next selling targets are 1.023 and
1.012.

The [S&P 500][5] correction and falling Treasury yields allowed the
[NZDJPY][4] bears to strengthen, but as soon as debt rates resume
growth, the pair will return to an uptrend. Use correction to form longs
with a target at 79.5.







## Price chart of NZDUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NZDUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURNZD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDNZD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NZDJPY&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURAUD&returnUrl=true
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/kiwi-needs-to-correct-mistakes-forecast-as-of-24082021/