+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-09"
description = "Forecast for USD price for 9 August 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for USD price for 9 August 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-08-09

2021-08-09

Dollar went north. Forecast as of 09.08.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Those unable to join the [EURUSD][1] when it headed downwards asserted
that US labor stats had changed the game rules. However, the rules had
been changed much earlier. Let’s discuss that and make a trading plan
for the eur/usd.

## Monthly fundamental forecast for dollar

A strong US employment report increased a chance that the Fed would not
delay monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) normalization and would pull back QE faster than
the market expected. According to Pepperstone, July's payrolls changed
the rules. I think those Australian guys missed the train that was
taking the greenback north. The game rules had been changed as early as
mid-July when the Fed said rates might be raised in 2022. So, I had a
reason to predict that an uptrend in [EURUSD][1] would be broken, and
the pair's [more likely][2] to rise to 1.14 than to return to 1.22. I
also [recommended][3] selling it once bulls became unable to sustain
quotes above 1.188.

Non-farm payrolls grew by 943 thousand, which is the best growth in the
past 11 months. Unemployment dropped to 5.4%, the lowest since the
beginning of the pandemic. Average wages grew above expectations.
Treasury yields increased and supported the dollar, while the [S&P][4]
500 had its 44th record-high close of 2021 amid weaker concern for the
US economic future.

### US employment rates

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Pessimists started saying the July report didn’t consider the drivers in
the growth of new COVID-19 cases and mask mandates making a comeback in
separate states. Conversely, optimists noted that 7.5 million Americans
would lose all their jobless benefits by 6 September, Labor Day, and
another 3 million workers -- their extra benefit of $300 a week,
according to Century Foundation. That will push people to search for
jobs and strengthen labor stats in August even more.

Further spread of Delta across the US may put pressure on both demand
and supply, which will keep a higher level of inflation. Goldman Sachs
estimates that travel and other factors associated with limited supply
increased the core PCE by 1.1 pct, pushing it to its highest over the
past 30 years. Their effect on the PCE index will reduce to 0.6 pct by
the end of the year, but that doesn't make the Fed's "temporary
inflation" mantra sound more plausible.

Fannie Mae, the US's biggest mortgage loan company, believes new growth
drivers will come in. It expects housing inflation to grow from 2% to
4.5% in the coming years, while home construction will add one pct to
the core PCE by the end of 2022. At the same time, Fannie Mae forecasts
the PCE index will be at 3% at the end of the next year. So, high
inflation doesn't appear to be temporary, as the Fed states.

### Monthly trading plan for [**EURUSD**][1]

A combination of high stable prices and the labor market's fast recovery
is key to normalizing monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) and understanding dollar pairs'
futures. The level of 1.188 is a red line for the [EURUSD][1]. Consider
selling it in the direction of 1.1715, 1.166, and 1.158 as long as the
pair holds below that line.







## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. lite.forex/blog/analysts-opinions/eurusd-burn-or-freeze-forecast-of-14072021/
   3. lite.forex/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-doesnt-take-words-forecast-as-of-30072021/
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true