+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-28"
description = "Australian dollar price forecast 28 June 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Australian dollar price forecast 28 June 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-28

2021-06-28

Aussie is going down. Forecast as of 28.06.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The Reserve Bank has taken a dovish stance, China continues to be
offended, and further growth of commodity prices look doubtful. How can
[AUDUSD][1] price not correct in such a situation? Is the uptrend
broken? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan

## Weekly Australian dollar fundamental forecast

Nothing lasts forever. Both the bad and the good. In March, the Aussie
exceeded the $0.8 mark for the first time since the beginning of 2018.
The Aussie strengthened by 45% over the previous 12 months due to the
successful fight against COVID-19, the absence of a recession in China,
and a strong rebound in commodity prices. In the second quarter,
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s had serious doubts about the viability of the old AUD drivers,
which led to the [AUDUSD][1] price consolidation. A leading Australia is
gradually becoming an outsider.

Australia, which previously successfully fought the pandemic, is now
under fire for slow vaccination. Occasional coronavirus outbreaks are
forcing Canberra to impose new restrictions, undermining the government
and the Reserve Bank's efforts to recover the country's economy.
Australia's “Covid-zero“ strategy has not been as effective as the
introduction of vaccines in the US, UK, and EU.

Of course, Australia can boast of a return to the trend in the labor
market and record growth in energy and mining export revenues to AU$334
billion in the 2020/2021 fiscal year. However, these factors have
already been taken into account in the [AUDUSD][1] prices, and the
position of the RBA and government forecasts do not allow us to expect
that they will continue to create favorable conditions for the bulls.

The Reserve Bank of Australia, unlike the Fed, is not going to raise the
rate in 2022-2023. Despite the recovery in the labor market, inflation
in Australia is growing extremely slow. It can be assumed that the
minimum labor underutilization over the past 8 years will ultimately
push wages and consumer prices up. But the RBA officials are not worried
about this yet. They are ready to remain passive, as the Fed officials
did until June.

### Dynamics of labor underutilization and wages in Australia



 _Source: Bloomberg._

After reaching a record peak, the government expects revenues from
electricity and mining exports to fall to $AU304 billion in fiscal
2022/2023 due to lower iron ore prices and tensions with China, which
accounts for about 45% of all shipments. Over the past few months,
Canberra and Beijing have already filed three WTO lawsuits for violating
the organization's rules. Do not forget about the slowdown in China's
GDP growth, which is likely to be reflected in the June PMI data, as
well as China's intention to halt the rally in commodity prices by
selling strategic stocks.

### Weekly [AUDUSD][1] trading plan

Thus, lockdowns, slow vaccination rates, the RBA's dovish stance,
declining prices for mining products and export revenues, conflict with
China, as well as a change of Fed's stance don't bode well for
​​restoring the [AUDUSD][1] uptrend. Selling the pair [following the
breakout of the support at 0.7685][2] has already yielded profits. I
believe that traders should enter short trades when the price rebounds
from resistances at 0.76, 0.7645, and 0.7705.



The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/aussie-is-a-role-model-forecast-as-of-15062021/