+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-09"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 9, 2020

June 9, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.06.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

Oil is rising in the medium-term uptrend, whose target is to test the
resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. There are just a few points
left before reaching the zone. After it is achieved, there may start a
correction.

The trend key support is now in the zone of [31.01 — 30.11].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.06.2020][1]

The short-term trend is up. The price was corrected down to the strong
support zone Additional Zone [37.76 – 37.54] yesterday. Today, buyers
are holding this price zone up, so, it is relevant to enter purchases
according to the pattern with a target at yesterday’s high.

If there is no pattern, and the price breaks out AZ downside, we could
enter short trades with the target in the trend key support zone
Intermediary Zone [35.51 — 35.06].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.06.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [37.76 - 37.54]. TakeProfit: 40.00, Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [35.51 - 35.06]. TakeProfit: 40.00, Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

Last week, gold traders tested the border of the middle-term uptrend
[1673.6 – 1664.4]. After that, gold has been trading above the support.
This week, I suggest looking for a buy pattern and enter gold purchases
with the target in the zone of the May’s high.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.06.2020][4]

Gold short-tern trend is down. Yesterday, traders were trying to break
out the local resistance Additional Zone [1695.8 – 1693.6]. The zone
hasn’t been broken, and the price is now rolling back below the
resistance.

However, it is not yet relevant to sell gold, as there isn’t a sell
pattern. It will be relevant to sell when the price is consolidated
below yesterday’s local low at the US session.

The price may as well be corrected higher. For example, it could go up
to the trend key resistance [1721.0 – 1716.4]. I will recommend entering
sell trades according to the pattern in this zone if the price reaches
the resistance.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.06.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1695.8 - 1693.6]. TakeProfit: 1671.5. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1721.0 - 1716.4]. TakeProfit: 1671.5. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

Following a strong rise over the past two weeks, the EUR/USD pair is
being corrected down. The correction target is the trend key support
[1.1201 – 1.1183]. Once the zone is reached, we shall see if the buyers
will hold it up.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.06.2020][7]

The EUR/USD is now breaking through the key support of the short-term
uptrend [1.1292 – 1.1283]. If sellers consolidate the price below
yesterday’s low, the zone will be broken out. If so, the local trend
will turn down, and the target will be the lower Target Zone [1.1201 -
1.1183].

If IZ is held, there should be a buy pattern. It will be relevant to buy
if the price breaks through the yesterday’s high and consolidates above.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.06.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1292 - 1.1283].
TakeProfit: 1.1382. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.06.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_090620_1.png?w=30&s=78ade3cc5cae87cf8a078a0bc59fc89c
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_090620_2.png?w=30&s=16c353177e377e3ada1cf24d86b7d3d4
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_090620_1.png?w=30&s=66780734b683c3c9f9864081bb4730b9
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_090620_2.png?w=30&s=df47b8e8a5c105cabca75da21f5d8a68
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_090620_1.png?w=30&s=7da5346e51fc4cdb39a941389e179e2a
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_090620_2.png?w=30&s=82a7c357ae889815ba2268dee790b9da
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-09062020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-09062020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_85.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=312f97578f7d340e2252108cc8bb28ba