+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-09"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 09.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 09.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 9, 2020

June 9, 2020

Dollar misses uncertaintyDmitri Demidenko

## The correction of the US stock indexes can support the EUR/USD bears

Fundamental analysis is a very flexible tool. The market reacts to the
macrostatistics differently in the period of a recession than it does in
the period of economic expansion. US strong jobs report for May, which
allowed the [S&P 500][1] to enter the green area for the first time
since the beginning of 2020, may finally send it down. The stock index
has been 47% up from the low hit in March, and it is 5% left to a record
high. Besides, the gap between its current values and the median
forecasts of Wall Street experts for the end of the year is the widest
ever. It is 10%. The doubt in the stock market’s ability to continue the
rally results in uncertainty, and uncertainty is a bullish factor for
the US dollar.

According to Sundial, traders established fresh bullish positions in the
first week of June by buying $35.6 million new call [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) on equities.
In February, when the US stock indexes were hitting all-time highs and
the speculative activity was rampant, it was about $28.7 million. About
50% of buyers are small [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s. Earlier, when bullish small trader
positions made up 45% or more of volume preceded a median loss for U.S.
stocks of about 3% in two-month time and 15% in a year.

 **Dynamics of S &P 500**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 09.06.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The [S&P 500][1] rally resulted from the huge stimulus and the hopes for
a V-shaped recovery of the US economy. Most of the positive has already
worked out. According to the National Bureau of Economic Research, the
US 128-month expansion, the longest dating to 1854, came to a halt in
February. The recession, which is going to be short, also began the same
month. The drop in the US unemployment from 14.7% to 13.3% in May makes
Republicans in Congress doubt the feasibility and, most importantly, the
size of the further stimulus. The US economy is recovering, it reached
the bottom and started growing earlier than it had been expected,
millions of Americans are back to work. Does it make sense to increase
the debt?

The White House, lawmakers, and the Fed have done a great job. The huge
fiscal and monetary stimuli mitigated the downturn and can support the
rebound of the US GDP. According to the World Bank’s projections, the US
economy should contract by 6.1% in 2020, the global growth will contract
by 5.2%. When Citi suggested the start of a long-term downtrend for the
USD index, it expected the US GDP should be recovering faster than the
global growth. The stimulating measures could change everything.

 **Dynamics of global GDP**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 09.06.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Therefore, despite the dollar losses in late spring, it is too early to
give up on the USD. The bullish factors for the euro and the [S&P
500][1] have worked out. Besides, the uncertainty and the potential
escalation of the trade war may result in deep corrections. However,
Donald Trump will try to avert a deep fall of the US stock indexes ahead
of the US presidential election. Therefore, one could buy the
[EUR/USD][4] on the correction.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar misses uncertainty][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/spx-09-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=82cc7ae65785319f76924be106195f28
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/world-gdp-09-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=8235eb0af6dd2703cab7a021c77987d0
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-misses-uncertainty&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-misses-uncertainty&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-09-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=447cfdc0d113f73051cb4b4ef40fb77d