+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-09"
description = "Fibonacci relations"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Fibonacci relations"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 9, 2020

June 9, 2020

NeoWave. Part 25. Fibonacci relations and correction identification with
channelingMikhail Hypov

## Channeling and Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.
Properties. Proportions. Application.

Dear Friends!

In the previous training articles, I covered progress labels in
different types of corrections. Today, I will explain Fibonacci
relations and correction identification with channeling. If you aren’t
yet familiar with the NeoWave theory, I recommend covering all the
articles, starting from the first one, in the NeoWave series based on
Glenn Neely’s studies:

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][1].

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels. ][2]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][3]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][5]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][6].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][10].

[NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][11]

[NeoWave. Part 12. Impulsions and the rules to analyze impulse wave
patterns. ][12]

[NeoWave. Part 13. Corrections. Rules to identify a correction.][13]

[NeoWave. Part 14. Triangles. Rules to identify triangles.][14]

[NeoWave. Part 15. Basic and advanced rules of logic to analyze
triangles][15].

[NeoWave. Part 16. Extended rules of logic for Flats and Zigzags.][16]

[NeoWave. Part 17.][17][ ][17][Extended rules of logic for complex
corrective patterns.][17]

[NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance. Compaction
procedures. Power ratings.][18]

[NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels applied in trending impulses][19].

[NeoWave. Part 20. Application of progress labels to terminal
impulses.][20]

[NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships.][21]

[NeoWave. Part 22. Progress labels in flat corrections][22].

[NeoWave. Part 23. Progress labels in triangles.][23]

[NeoWave. Part 24. Progress labels in triangles and zigzags. ][24]

My dear readers, before I go on to the educational material, I would
like to give you a few tips so that you can use the information with the
maximum effect.

I suggest you follow the below steps:

  1. Before you start reading, prepare a pen and a notebook.
  2. I recommend printing the article or pasting it into a text editor to work with text.
  3. Read the article for the first time to get the gist without going deep into details. Underline the key points in each paragraph. Highlight the words that are not clear or raise questions.
  4. Use the search engine and look up the definitions of the words you do not understand. Try to find out the solution for each question yourself and put down the information you find in the notebook.
  5. Read the article once again, trying to check and put each of the statements into practice. You can get the [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) data for testing here, on the [LiteForex][25] platform!
  6. Write a summary of the article, put down the main points and thoughts for each section.
  7. If you failed to do anything, or you still have questions, write a comment under the article, which you have questions about. If you see a comment with a question you know the answer to, help your colleagues find a solution.

Have a nice learning!

### Correction identification with channeling

This section will deal with the channeling applied to the analysis of
corrective patterns.

### Channeling in flat corrections

To detect a flat, you draw a channel in the following way:

  * You draw a basis line connecting the zero point and the end of wave (B).
  * You draw a parallel horizontal line across the end of wave (A).

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 25. Channeling and
Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.][26]

The above chart shows an example of a channel drawn for a flat. Note
that its basis line connects the zero point and the end of wave (B).
There is also a parallel line drawn across the end of wave (A).

The channel helps you to anticipate the market strength or weakness:

  * The larger the (B) wave, the greater the chances of an explosive move (either up or down) after wave (C) completes.
  * The smaller wave (B) is in relation to wave (A), the more likely the flat will either be the first segment of a larger (A)-(B)-(C) or ****the flat will be followed by an X-wave and another standard correction.
  * If a flat channels perfectly (i.e. if wave (C) is the same length as wave (A)), it will probably be followed by an X-wave and become part of a complex correction

Let us see the implications of channeling on an example:

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 25. Channeling and
Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.][27]

The chart displays a roughly outlined irregular failure flat with a
channel. A shorter wave (B) (compared to wave (A)) signals the current
weakness of the market. However, the short (C) wave means that the
temporary market weakness has been neutralized, and, after the
correction ends, there should be quite a strong move up.

### Channeling for Double and Triple Flats

The X-waves in a double or triple flat is almost always much __smaller
than the segments of the correction, which they separate. So, the
baseline of the channel is drawn across the ends of wave (B) within each
pattern. The additional line is parallel to the baseline, it is drawn
across the end of wave (A) of one of the flats. If the baseline is
broken, the pattern should be complete. A C-failure flat is likely to be
the last flat of one of these complex formations.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 25. Channeling and
Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.][28]

The above chart roughly outlines a double flat. Note that the baseline
(the upper one in our case) is drawn across the ends of wave (B). There
is a parallel line that should be drawn across the end of at least one
wave (A). Wave (X) is much shorter than the flats’ segments that compose
the sequence. Besides, the second wave (C) is a failure. This pattern
should be over once the price breaks out the channel’s baseline.

### Channeling for Double and Triple Combinations

These patterns have many variations, so, there is no strict algorithm on
[how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) channel them. I will cover a few examples below, however, Neely
recommends drawing channel, like with the double and triple flats, where
the baseline is the trend line drawn across the ends of the (B) waves
which compose the sequence. Besides, the ends of the (A) waves may
compose not very “pure” trend line, i.e. they often exceed the channel
border or fail to reach it.

### Channels for Zigzags

Zigzags are channeled in a similar way that flats do:

  * Draw a baseline connecting the zero point and the end of the (B) wave.
  * Draw a parallel line across the end of wave (A).

The only difference is that the (C) wave may be far from the trend line
or break it through, but it mustn’t touch it. If the (C) wave touches
the trendline, the zigzag is likely to be a part of a more complex
pattern, for example, a double or a triple zigzag, a double or a triple
flat. Besides, the wave which immediately follows should not retrace all
of the zigzag. If that wave retraces less than 61.8% of the zigzag, it
should be labeled an X-wave.

During the analysis, you should also bear in mind that the (C) wave is
near its completion if it breaks through the channel’s border.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 25. Channeling and
Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.][29]

The above chart displays an example of the channel for a zigzag covered
above. As you see, wave (C) doesn’t reach the lower trendline.

### Channel for Double or Triple Zigzags

Unlike many other Elliott patterns, double and triple zigzags create an
almost ideal channeling environment. The channel’s borders should
contain the entire series of multiple advances and declines (there still
could be some crossings). As the internal structure of the waves within
the pattern, this is one of the significant differences between double
or triple zigzags and impulse formations, in which the crossing of the
borders of the channels or a significant failure to achieve occurs much
more often.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 25. Channeling and
Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.][30]

The above chart displays a double zigzag within two pink lines of the
channel. Note that most highs and lows touch the channel’s lines.

### Channels for Double and Triple Combinations, which start with
Zigzags.

Double and triple combinations starting with a zigzag, like double and
triple zigzags, will channel within defined parallel lines. The line
will be crossed when the last corrective phase is nearing completion.
This is because the last segment of a double or triple combination is
usually a triangle, whose final waves will provide at least one “false”
break of the base parallel line before the pattern finally completes.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 25. Channeling and
Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.][31]

The above chart schematically outlines a double combination that is
composed of a zigzag and a triangle. Note that most high and lows are
within the channel. Starting with the (D) wave the pattern is breaking
through the channel’s borders.

### Channels for Triangles

For triangles, the base trendline is drawn across the ends of wave (B)
and (D). When the trendline gets broken you know the Triangle is over.
The trendline on the other side of the triangle may be drawn three
different ways:

  * (A)-(C) – the most common way;
  * (C)-(E) — less common;
  * (A)-(E) – the least common.

When you draw the lower line of the channel it is important that the
line mustn’t be broken through by the third peak. So, to draw the line,
go through the following algorithm.

First, check if the peak of the (E) wave breaks through the (A)-(C)
line. If it doesn’t, leave it. If it breaks, go to the next way and
check if the peak of the (A) breaks through the line. If the line is
broken, check the (A)-(E) line.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 25. Channeling and
Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.][32]

The above chart roughly outlines an expanding triangle. Note that the
base trendline is drawn across (B) - (D) waves, and the additional line
is drawn along with the (A) и (С) waves, where wave (E) doesn’t break
through the lower channel line.

Here, I am about to finish describing channeling for corrective
patterns.

### Fibonacci relations

Now, it is time to deal with the Fibonacci relations that will help you
to identify the completion of waves in the Elliott wave patterns.

### Fibonacci relations in flat corrections

Flats are less likely than any other Elliot pattern have particular
internal Fibonacci relations, as in most cases each wave of this pattern
is roughly equal to the previous one. The only situation where the
Fibonacci ratios are clearly expressed is a significant difference in
the price territory covered by waves (A) and (B).

### Internal Fibonacci relations of wave (A) and (B) in flat corrections

These waves move in opposite directions, there are no reliable Fibonacci
relations between them, except for those I described in the section
devoted to the [p][13][re-constructive rules][13] of logic

  * If wave (B) is strong, it likely to retrace 138.2% of wave (A), in rare instances, the relation is 161.8%. However, the above relation will hardly be reached exactly.

  * A weak wave (B) will be related to wave (A) (if there is any relation at all) by 61.8%.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 25. Channeling and
Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.][33]

It is clear from the [BTCUSD][34] chart above that the above internal
Fibonacci relation for a flat correction is confirmed. Strong wave (B)
is about 138.2% of wave (A).

### Fibonacci relations for wave (С) in a flat

The C-wave in a flat has the following characteristics:

  * The (C) wave in a flat should not exceed the (A) wave by more than 138.2% unless it is an elongated flat.
  * Wave (С) is rarely less than 61.8% of wave (A). If it is, the (B) should be forming as a very small triangle.
  * Very often, the (C) wave is roughly equal to the (A) wave. The next common relation between wave (C) and (A) is 61.8% when there is a C-failure or a B-failure.
  * The minimum internal relationship allowed between wave (A) and wave (C) is 38.2%. This only happens on rare occasions in what is called a “severe” failure. This can happen if the (B) wave is between 61.8% – 100% of wave (A). Besides, the closer is wave (B) to 100% of wave (A), the more likely is the severe failure to occur.



Let us see how these relations work on the example.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 25. Channeling and
Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.][35]

The [BTCUSD][34] chart above displays a flat correction. The (C) wave is
about 100% of the (A) wave, which is the most common case.

### External Fibonacci for double and triple flats and combinations

In more complex corrections, there occurs the so-called _waterfall
effect_. It is based on the principle that after the first external
****support or resistance level has produced a reversal, the market may
turn around and break through that level. The second push to new price
levels will move only 61.8% of the previous break. If there is a third
break, it should move 38.2% of the original move.

When you have analyzed the first flat in a complex pattern, you should
use its entire length as a measure. The (A) wave following the (X) wave
of the second pattern will quite often retrace 61.8% of the entire first
flat, measured from the end of wave (C) of the first flat.

When you analyze triple flats and combinations, wave (A) of the third
pattern is the third break, so it will retrace from the end of the
second pattern by 38.2% of the first pattern.

Let us analyze a complex combination on an example.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 25. Channeling and
Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.][36]

The above chart displays an example of a triple flat. After analyzing
the first segment, we use its total length as a reference measure.
According to the external Fibonacci relations for the double and triple
combination that starts with a flat, wave (A) of the second segment
retraces by 61.8% of the entire first flat, measured from the start of
the first (X) wave (the green area is 61.8% of the red one).

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 25. Channeling and
Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.][37]

Wave (A) of the third flat retraces by 38.2% of the first segment in the
pattern (it is marked with the yellow area, which is 38.2% of the red
area, measured from the beginning of the second (X) wave.

### Fibonacci relations in Zigzags

There are not so many variations of zigzags, and they are less
complicated patterns than impulsions, they do not have many Fibonacci
relations between their segments.

### Fibonacci relations between waves (A) and (B) in Zigzags

There are not often any relations between the adjacent waves. Wave (A)
and (B) usually relate by 61.8% or 38.2%.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 25. Channeling and
Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.][38]

In the above example of a zigzag, waves (A) and (B) do not relate by any
particular Fibonacci ratio. It is clear that wave (B) is close to 61.8%
of wave (A).

### Fibonacci relations for wave (C) in Zigzags

  * Wave (C) in a normal zigzag may be 61.8%, 100%, or 161.8% of wave (A).
  * An elongated wave (C) do not usually relate to the (A) wave by any specific ratio. It is always more than 161.8% of wave (A), and the zigzag is a segment of a complex pattern making up a leg of a triangle or is itself a leg of a triangle. In some cases waves (A) and () relate by 261.8%.
  * Wave (C) should not be less than 61.8% of wave (A). If so, it is probably due to a very small (B) wave that is a triangle. The zigzag is probably the entire leg of a triangle or part of a complex correction, which is the leg of a triangle,
  * Wave (C) in a truncated zigzag can be 38.2% of wave (A).

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 25. Channeling and
Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.][39]

The example of the [Bitcoin ][34]chart that the (C) wave is close to
100% of wave (A). Therefore, this is a normal zigzag. In the case of
real trading, the level of 100% would be the target profit. When the
price approached the level and reversed in the opposite direction, it
would signal the necessity to urgently exit the trade.

### Fibonacci relations in Double and Triple Zigzags and Combinations

In more complex corrections, there occurs the so-called _waterfall
effect_.

When you have analyzed the first zigzag in a complex pattern, you should
use its entire length as a measure. The (A) wave following the (X) wave
of the second pattern will quite often retrace 61.8% of the entire first
zigzag, measured from the end of wave (C) of the first flat. Wave (C)
will retrace 38.2% of the first zigzag measured from the end of wave
(A).

When analyzing triple zigzags and combinations, Neely recommends
subsequently analyze the two wave sequences. That is, you analyze the
first two zigzags (or a zigzag and some other corrective pattern) at the
first stage as if you were analyzing a common double combination. After
completing that study, work with the second two zigzags, the second and
the third segment, in the same way.

Let us analyze a complex combination on an example.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 25. Channeling and
Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.][40]

The above chart displays a double zigzag. After we have analyzed the
first zigzag in the complex pattern, we take its entire length as a
reference to analyze the second zigzag. I marked this value with the red
area.

Wave (A), following the (X) wave, of the second zigzag retraces 61.8% of
the entire first zigzag, measured from the start of wave (X) (the end of
wave (C) of the first zigzag).

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 25. Channeling and
Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.][41]

The second push of the waterfall, which is 38.2% of the first zigzag, is
measured from the end of wave (A) of the second zigzag. Wave (C) ends
exactly at the level of 38.2%.

If you encounter a triple combination, you repeat the above procedure
but the reference measure will be the length of the second zigzag, and
the analyzed pattern will be the third zigzag or another correction.

### Fibonacci relations in triangles

Triangles are composed of more segments than other corrective patterns.
So, waves within triangles are more likely to have any specific
Fibonacci relations than those in zigzags and flats. Neely believes that
there must be at least two Fibonacci relationships that occur between
the various segments.

Most often, Fibonacci ratios occur between alternating waves in
triangles. The only two adjacent waves that relate by a specific ratio
are waves (B) и (D), the most common relationship is 61.8%.

The most likely ratios are:

  * waves (A), (C) and (E);

  * Waves (B) and (D).

 **Important!** Neely defines a testing relation. If wave (B) is 61.8%
of wave (A), the pattern is not likely to be a triangle.

Let us see the last three waves of a triangle in detail, which are most
commonly related by any Fibonacci ratio.

### Fibonacci relations fro wave (C) in triangles

  * The (C) wave of a Triangle usually relates to wave (A) by 61.8%, in rare instances, by 38.2%.

  * If wave (B) is greater than wave (A), wave (C) is likely to be 61.8% of wave (B).

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 25. Channeling and
Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.][42]

On the example of the [Bitcoin][34] price chart, it is clear that wave
(C), according to Neely’s extended Fibonacci relations, is 61.8% of wave
(A). By the way, note that in this triangle, the second trendline of the
channel is drawn in an unusual way, across wave (A) and (E).

### Fibonacci relations for wave (D) in a triangle

  * Wave (D) is often related to wave (A) by 61.8%.
  * Wave (D) can also relate to any wave of the triangle by 61.8% (more likely) or 38.2%.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 25. Channeling and
Fibonacci relations in corrective patterns.][43]

As an example, I use the same triangle. It is clear from the above chart
that wave (D), just like the (C) wave, relates to wave (A) by almost
exactly 61.8%.

### Fibonacci relations for wave (E) in a triangle

  * Wave (E) will usually relate to wave (D) by 61.8% or 38.2% (in rare instances).
  * It could also relate to the larger waves, except (D) by 38.2%.
  * If the (B) wave is larger than than the (A) wave, wave (E) will relate to wave (A) by any ratio.

In the triangle we analyze, wave (E) has only one Fibonacci relation.
Wave (E) is 61.8% of the wave (С).

That is all for today. Apply these techniques in practice and test
everything in trading. The LiteForex [functions](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/basic-functions/) are more than enough for
this. If you haven’t yet chosen your broker, it’s high time you started
trading with [LiteForex][44]. Besides, there is a wonderful opportunity
to win a dream house, a brand new car, and cool Apple gadgets in the
[dream draw][45] with the total prize fund of 350 000 USD.

In the next educational article, I will deal with missing waves.
Subscribe to stay informed on the latest updates!

* * *

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][46]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][47] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![NeoWave. Part 25. Fibonacci relations and correction identification
with channeling][48]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b/
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a/
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-10-retracement-rule-6-conditions-b-c-and-d/
   11. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-11-retracement-rule-7/
   12. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-12-impulsions-and-the-rules-to-analyze-impulse-wave-patterns/
   13. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-13-corrections-rules-to-identify-a-correction/
   14. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-14-corrections-triangles-rules-to-identify-triangles/
   15. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-15-basic-and-advanced-rules-of-logic-to-analyze-triangles/
   16. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-16-extended-rules-of-logic-for-zigzags-and-flat-corrections/
   17. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-17-extended-rules-of-logic-for-complex-corrections-exceptions-to-the-rules-2020-05-07/
   18. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-18-rules-of-complexity-and-balance-compaction-procedures-power-ratings/
   19. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-19-progress-labels-and-application-of-progress-labels-to-trending-impulses/
   20. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-20-application-of-progress-labels-to-terminal-impulses/
   21. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-21-channeling-in-impulses-and-fibonacci-relationships/
   22. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-22-progress-labels-and-their-application-to-flat-corrections/
   23. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-23-progress-labels-and-their-application-to-triangles/
   24. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-24-progress-labels-in-triangles-and-zigzags/
   25. my.liteforex.com/
   26. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=19a979b5e1eab0fc63e5c7ef4710c3b7
   27. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=ce31d6c43853dfc2ee320010d9fec474
   28. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=400978947a61497af0b895dad41d6f76
   29. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=7b9aa897f0f67d5e8aad90b90e1d8a03
   30. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=f8bcc06e6d59aed94fe6e434b2cbeb4a
   31. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=82d5267e47ca56c40e00d914a0cbcc78
   32. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=4530ac4b6cacbff9d0d0f87f6e18f040
   33. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=ac5e941d272272e56cf77be8ab2741e0
   34. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD&returnUrl=true
   35. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=11e107fda1b975cde72e993f1af774d7
   36. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_10.jpg?w=30&s=b1990f52cf542447679d0c83db97b288
   37. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_11.jpg?w=30&s=dc235c2d6b5712dfbc76f96550264be3
   38. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_12.jpg?w=30&s=7405c0b32892280c8319100a43c913ec
   39. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_13.jpg?w=30&s=0f89be49797c9da48fb1e93836143baa
   40. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_14.jpg?w=30&s=f635e56d22165635e64341ddc75d022a
   41. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_15.jpg?w=30&s=8240c620ed0b7441859733b62813ce91
   42. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_16.jpg?w=30&s=8d05cc36816be38ad729e0f64991e311
   43. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_17.jpg?w=30&s=268960f9337982e1f4578d2bc0896eb2
   44. my.liteforex.com/trading
   45. www.liteforex.com/contests/dream-draw/
   46. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-25-fibonacci-relations-and-correction-identification-with-channeling&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   47. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-25-fibonacci-relations-and-correction-identification-with-channeling&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   48. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.03/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=05ea5c22534542a568ad0f87442d0d84