+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-09"
description = "Forecast for General Electric. Actual scenario and trading plan."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for General Electric. Actual scenario and trading plan."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 9, 2020

June 9, 2020

General Electric Company. Fundamental and technical analysis. Global
cycles and medium-term forecastMikhail Hypov

##  **GE: Fundamental and technical analysis. Supercycles. Wave
structure. Key levels. Bill Williams’ trading system. Trading plan**

This article is devoted to one of the most interesting blue chips of the
US stock market  - [General Electric Company][1].

 **History of GE**

The [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) of General Electric Company starts in 1878 and is linked to
legendary inventor Thomas Edison. It’s his Edison Lamp Company that
became [General Electric Company][1] after a merger with Thomson-Houston
Electric Company.  A lamp manufacturer at the beginning, the business
developed fast and started producing a variety of products, from steam
turbines and transformers to household appliances. The golden age of the
company was the Second World War. The company’s earnings doubled on
defence orders. [General Electric Company][1] supplied the US and the
Allies’ armies with power-plant units for trade and military vessels.
Over 50 types of military radars were developed. In 1942, the first jet
aircraft was tested. Also, [General Electric][2] was one of the first
companies that implemented a credit scheme for private consumers. That
business scheme finally gave birth to one of the company’s biggest
business activities - General Electric Credit Corporation with assets
worth of $16 billion.  The company’s financial activities spread to
insurance, real-estate and leasing.

Another golden age was the nineties. In 1994, [GE ][1] became the most
valuable US company with the income of 70 billion USD.

![LiteForex: Forecast for General Electric. Actual scenario and trading
plan.][3]

In 1998, the company’s capitalization exceeded 100 billion USD for the
first time. In 2000, a [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) [GE][1] share price of 58.15 USD was
reached, with the capitalization exceeding 500 billion USD. ![LiteForex:
Forecast for General Electric. Actual scenario and trading plan.][4]

Since [General Electric Company][1] was integrated into the global
economy, crisis occurrences affected it too. The first slump occurred at
the end of 2000 because of the dot-com crisis. Another collapse took
place during the crisis of 2008. General Electric Credit Corporation,
which used to yield over 50% of the company’s gross revenues, started to
pull money in order to cover losses coming from high-risk trades.
After the 2008 crisis the US government toughened the financial sector
[regulation](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-broker-regulation/), which put another load onto financial businesses.

![LiteForex: Forecast for General Electric. Actual scenario and trading
plan.][5]

The debt bubble was finally reduced from 708 to 539 billion USD, but the
load was still high because of high debt service costs. As a result, in
2015 they decided to sell the company’s office buildings and some other
properties worth 22 billion USD, as well as the GE Capital division.
Those events initiated the biggest sell-off in the company’s [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/).

 **Fundamental analysis**

![LiteForex: Forecast for General Electric. Actual scenario and trading
plan.][6]

After restructuring, the [company’s][1] equity dropped almost 5 times,
from $136.93 to $30.30 billion.  Fundamentally, the situation has
slightly improved but remains complicated.![LiteForex: Forecast for
General Electric. Actual scenario and trading plan.][7]

The available cash value stepped into positive territory in 2019.
![LiteForex: Forecast for General Electric. Actual scenario and trading
plan.][8]

The production margin level got steady at about 26-27%.![LiteForex:
Forecast for General Electric. Actual scenario and trading plan.][9]

At the same time, the company’s liabilities value is still enormous:
$224 billion. Its debt/asset ratio got even worse.![LiteForex: Forecast
for General Electric. Actual scenario and trading plan.][10]

That value dropped from 0.57 to 0.35, which points to a decrease of debt
load relative to assets.   Nonetheless, despite some alarming
indicators, [General Electric Company ][1] remains a global corporation
with a huge administrative resource. It makes stable profits from state
defence orders and servicing petroleum, power supply and power
generation systems. The company is the leader in these sectors and can
develop further through a vast global network of offices.

 **Technical analysis**

![LiteForex: Forecast for General Electric. Actual scenario and trading
plan.][11]

If we have a global look at GE’ s chart, we may suppose we are in the
second wave of the super cycle that has been forming as a correction
ABCDE. Such a formation is a rare thing for the second wave, but it may
occur if the first wave is long. We see that the second wave went below
0.232 of the first wave’s height. It means an impulse’s flat
development.  So, the third wave of the super cycle isn’t likely to
update the [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) peak, but there may be growth within the limits of
the first wave’s projection.

![LiteForex: Forecast for General Electric. Actual scenario and trading
plan.][12]

The fourth wave won’t probably go below the middle of the third wave.
The peak of top D is located in that area, at about 30 USD per share. It
will be a support level if a fall occurs.   According to the Elliott
wave structure, the third wave can’t be the shortest. Since the impulse
is forming as flat, the fifth wave won’t probably go far from the first
wave’s peak and the third wave’s supposed peak at 60 USD. ![LiteForex:
Forecast for General Electric. Actual scenario and trading plan.][13]

With a closer look, we see the signals described by Bill Williams. The
MACD shows a clear bullish divergence in the chart above. The histogram
is in the green zone. The MFI has already shown a squat candle. There’s
no sense in checking Williams’ fractal before the end of August because
at least two more candles must form after the local minimum. But we may
speak of a good growth potential in the medium term even in the
conditions of a general bearish trend. The minimum of wave (C) is
located at around 5.51 USD. This is a strong support level for bulls, so
a stop order should be placed below it when opening a long position.

 **Trading plan**

![LiteForex: Forecast for General Electric. Actual scenario and trading
plan.][14]

To sum up, I can’t say [General Electric Company][1] will go bankrupt
soon. But I wouldn’t consider long positions otherwise than speculative
operations in a bearish trend. Positions may be opened at the current
level with the nearest target at around 11 USD. This level is very
likely to be retested. If the market starts moving against bulls,
averaging into the position at 7.8 and 6.6 USD would be wise. To my
mind, the total volume of positions shouldn’t exceed 5% of the deposit
because it’s still high-risk stocks in the current crisis circumstances.
But if the governement supports businesses, I’m sure [General Electric
Company][1] will be one of the first companies on the support list. So,
the support levels look reliable fundamentally.   Remember that you can
buy [GE][1] stock any time at LiteForex. If you still don’t trade, it’s
time to start right now: the broker is raffling fabulous prizes to
celebrate its [15th anniversary][15]. Everyone can win!

* * *

Good luck and profits, everyone!

Subscribe and keep in touch!

Yours,

Michael @Hypov

 _I’d like to remind you that all materials are provided for educational
purposes only. They aren’t financial advice and don’t guarantee any
profits. All trading decisions you make are your responsibility only._

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][16]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][17] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of GE in real time mode

![General Electric Company. Fundamental and technical analysis. Global
cycles and medium-term forecast][18]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=#GE&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23GE&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.09/GE_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=61d318b3812e00b2fc723c8224d346ed
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.09/GE_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=9b58725b40a277d5f2e223b39043bb83
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.09/GE_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=c0e064430b8552036017c229575269a3
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.09/GE_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=989c68ec0ca8f5e4adcc837b1a95521a
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.09/GE_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=afbe5c65c71c89b18d49b1fca929eb4d
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.09/GE_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=43327beff0288faf424e7f236b934175
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.09/GE_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=468cec7af67aa7f6afa974564d4b6edf
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.09/GE_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=617d94bba2f4d0b56320b2b60a1e7604
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.09/GE_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=03a35b1a7ab5250bfac2ea65d8328f33
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.09/GE_hypov_10.jpg?w=30&s=fe6d3bb757e5df6c26f4a074f606a850
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.09/GE_hypov_11.jpg?w=30&s=e1fc49e725153c68f8a25949aa78125f
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.09/GE_hypov_12.jpg?w=30&s=fe31fce6052ffdd29837940c075aa1d0
   15. www.liteforex.com/contests/dream-draw/?_ga=2.62491052.1027453424.1589809964-2095657289.1460018267
   16. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=general-electric-company-fundamental-and-technical-analysis-global-cycles-and-medium-term-forecast&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   17. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=general-electric-company-fundamental-and-technical-analysis-global-cycles-and-medium-term-forecast&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.09/GE_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=0ab7de40e4e579b35f838076296e2cdc