+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-09"
description = "NZDUSD forecast for 09.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "NZDUSD forecast for 09.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 9, 2020

June 9, 2020

Kiwi celebrates victoryDmitri Demidenko

## New Zealand got benefits in the economic recovery due to the victory
over coronavirus

[In late March][1], I recommend buying the New Zealand dollar, and I
could have been criticized by many analysts. The [NZD/USD][2] pair was
trading close to its 11-year low, the stock indexes showed no signs of
growth, and the concerns about global recession encouraged [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s to
buy safe havens. However, I was right then. The Kiwi has been 10% up
versus the US dollar, and it is even the leader among G10 currencies in
June. The factor of China’s economic recovery as the main market for New
Zealand goods has worked, hasn’t it? Is it time to harvest?

I have stressed many times that a good trade must be based on an
investment idea. For example, I assumed that a lower lockdown stringency
in Canada and Australia suggested [buying the CAD and the AUD][1].
However, the stringency of the social isolation policies gives a clue on
how fast an economy can rebound. New Zealand won the battle with
COVID-19, and the [NZD/USD][2] has been up to its four-month high, and
the S&P /NZX 50 has been the first among the stock indexes in the Asia-
Pacific region to enter the green zone since the beginning of the year.
The New Zealand stock market has been 36% up from the lows hit in March.

 **Dynamics of S &P/NZD 50**

![LiteForex: NZDUSD forecast for 09.06.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern says the country has united in
unprecedented ways to defeat the virus. Now, the country has a benefit
in the economic recovery. A seven-week lockdown ended on May 14, there
haven’t been new coronavirus cases since then. So, New Zealand is one of
the first to be officially declared virus-free, and its economy will be
one of the most open in the world.

Yes, New Zealand has done a lot and lost a lot. According to the
projections of The Reserve Bank of New Zealand, which has aggressively
cut the rates and launched the QE worth NZ$60 billion, the GDP will
contract by 21.8% in the second quarter. Considering the drop by 2.4% in
the January-March period, New Zealand is to slide into a recession for
the first time since 2010. However, I believe this factor was already
worked out in early spring. Besides the talks about the fast rebound of
the New Zeland economy have supported the [NZD/USD][2] bulls in the May-
June period.

The foreign environment is also favorable for the Kiwi, as China’s
economy is recovering and the US stock indexes are trading up. China’s
foreign trade surplus reached a record of $62.9 billion in May, and the
Caixin report on the manufacturing and services PMIs has exceeded the
forecasts and is up above the important level of 50, which signals
economic expansion. The only barrier to Chinese growth could be set by
Donald Trump. The US president might escalate the trade war, but the
fallout must be negative. It could result in the S&P 500 sale-offs,
which is not good ahead of the presidential election. I believe, the
risk of the US stock market correction increases, which encourages
traders to exit the [NZD/USD][2] longs [entered in March][1]. However,
the correction will hardly be deep, so it makes sense to buy the Kiwi on
a drawdown with the middle-term targets at $0.675 and $0.685.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of NZDUSD in real time mode

![Kiwi celebrates victory][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/kiwi-is-about-to-take-off/
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NZDUSD&returnUrl=true&
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/nzx-09-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=d571abd742068a8eab9e91d662f121a9
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=kiwi-celebrates-victory&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=kiwi-celebrates-victory&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-nzdusd-09-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=57e26630382a2ffbad23445bd5d084eb