+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-28"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (28 September 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (28 September 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-28

2020-09-28

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 28.09.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The EURUSD has reached the primary sell target Target Zone 2 [1.1611 -
1.1591]. I recommend monitoring the behavior of buyers and sellers in
this zone.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil traders face a resistance level in the zone of Target Zone 5 [41.67
– 40.92]. The sellers are reacting to the test of the zone. Oil prices
could slide down again into the trend key support [37.34 – 36.72].

On the other hand, the medium-term oil trend is up. The 1-2-3 buy
pattern worked out last week. The price is now being corrected to the
wave 2-3. We shall see what will be next. The market sentiment in the
medium-term chart is not yet clear.

The short-term trend is up. Expect a buy pattern in Intermediary Zone
[38.72 – 38.45]. The pattern will emerge when the price breaks through
the high of September 23. If the pattern emerges, we shall enter the oil
buy trades with the target in the upper Target Zone [42.85 – 42.23].

An alternative scenario to sell oil. The price doesn’t break out the
resistance level of 40.51, and there is the breakout of Intermediary
Zone [38.72 – 38.45]. If so, we shall enter short trades with the target
in the lower Target Zone [35.97 — 35.42].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [38.72 - 38.45].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [42.85 - 42.23]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold is trading close to the support level at 1862.3. This is the low of
August 12. If the price consolidates below, it will continue falling
into Target Zone 2 [1829.4 — 1820.1].

The short-term gold trend is down. The price is now trading a little
higher than the support Gold Zone [1852.9 - 1848.2]. It hasn’t yet
broken out the support, so it is too early to expect the market to
continue declining.

However, there is double top pattern to sell. According to this pattern,
we should have opened short positions with the target at the low of
September 24.

It will be relevant to buy gold if the sell trades yield a loss or if
the price breaks out Additional Zone [1874.5 - 1872.2]. If so, we shall
trade in the deep upward correction with the upside target at
Intermediary Zone [1900.1 — 1895.4].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Hold down sell trades entered in Additional Zone [1874.5 - 1872.2]. TakeProfit: 1848.2. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. If the price breaks out Additional Zone [1874.5 — 1872.2], buy according to the pattern on the retest. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1900.1 - 1895.4]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD has reached he primary sell target, Target Zone 2 [1.1611 -
1.1591]. I suggest we see the reaction of buyers and sellers in the
zone. If there is a correction, we shall enter sell trades at level
1.1752 and in the Target Zone [1.1832 — 1.1812].

The local euro-dollar trend is down. Traders are now trying to break out
Gold Zone [1.1617 – 1.1607] in the hourly timeframe. If the price
consolidates below the zone, the next downside target will be Target
Zone 2 [1.1517 – 1.1497].

Anyway, we consider sell trades as of now. I recommend entering shorts
in the resistance zones, Additional Zone [1.1667 - 1.1662] and
Intermediary Zone [1.1722 – 1.1712]. The local target will be at the low
of last week.

There is no signals to buy the euro yet.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1667 - 1.1662]. TakeProfit: 1.1607. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1722 - 1.1712]. TakeProfit: 1.1607. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-28092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-28092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus