+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-19"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 19.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 19.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 19, 2020

June 19, 2020

Does dollar need a revolution?Dmitri Demidenko

## The dollar smile theory is again discussed in Forex

The rules are unable and the ruled ones are unwilling. The [EUR/USD][1]
pair seems to be reaching a revolutionary stage which may lead to
unexpected results. The buyers of the S&P 500 and the euro are losing
the faith in the V-shaped recovery of the US economy, or a soon victory
over COVID-19. Besides, such factors as the huge fiscal and monetary
stimulus provided by the EU and the ECB have been already priced in the
major currency pair. The bulls need good [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) or fresh drivers to be
encouraged to buy, but such drivers are not always provided. Bears are
not willing to ahead without being confident in the second wave of the
pandemic or the escalation of trade wars. Is there coming a revolution?

Donald Trump is again talking about cutting off relations with China.
Steven Mnuchin says the U.S. doesn’t want to continue negotiations on
digital taxation at the OECD. France calls this a provocation. Despite
the investigation launched by the US trade representative Robert
Lighthizer on whether Washington can unilaterally impose import tariffs
as retaliation to the taxation of the US large companies abroad, France
states it will continue taxation of digital giants. Facebook, Apple, and
other giants receive a substantial revenue share from European users,
which can’t but raise concerns in the EU. There is now a real chance
that the dispute will end with a trade war.

The number of new COVID-19 cases is growing in some US states and in the
world, the euphoria in the US stock market is gradually giving way to
fear. The S&P 500 drop below 3000 will be a real disaster for the
[EUR/USD][1] bulls. Investors discuss the idea that [the dollar smile
theory][2] will work out once again. It suggests the greenback
strengthen following the crash of the stock indexes signaling a
recession, and it weakens amid the Fed’s huge monetary stimulus and the
improvement of the risk appetite. However, the dollar should start
rising again afterward amid the expectations that the US economy will be
recovering faster than the global. In fact, strong US employment data
and retail sales increase the chance that the US GDP will quickly
rebound, and the USD index is moving according to the smile theory. Its
10% rise was followed by a 6% crash. Is there going to be the third
stage?

 **V-shaped recovery of the US economic surprise index**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 19.06.2020][3]

 _Source: Citigroup_

Investors are closely watching the events going on in the USA, and I can
understand this. The growing dominance of the dollar in international
finance means that U.S. problems pose a threat to the entire world.
According to BIS, the share of the greenback as a currency for
international financing has been the biggest since 2000. Its share in
global FX reserves is 61%, in exchange operations – 85%, __ in the
international settlements – about 50%.

What can the euro present? The official approval of the French-German
fiscal stimulus project at the EU summit in June? I do not think this
will provoke a strong reaction of traders. Another matter if there are
problems with the plan’s approval. In this case, the [EUR/USD][1] could
drop to 1.115 and 1.1125.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Does dollar need a revolution?][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/dollar-smile-theory/
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/surprise-usa-19-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=38c358186c51e5e749a434dd358f1024
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=does-dollar-need-a-revolution&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=does-dollar-need-a-revolution&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-19-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=7ae8631252294f3f3b7e1d71e3313c90