+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-19"
description = "Trade war at the door?"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Trade war at the door?"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 19, 2020

June 19, 2020

Forex needs shockDmitri Demidenko

##  **Markets would be boring without new subjects**

> \- Why can cats see in the dark?

>

> \- They can’t reach the light switch.

![LiteForex: Trade war at the door?][1]

When you can’t figure out what’s going on, you have to move by touch. I
don’t feel sorry for Western analysts complaining about the discrepancy
between currency rates and economic fundamentals. People are used to
basing their behaviour on patterns. When something gets out of the
common, they start telling stories about the market’s inadequate
movements.  Instead of telling [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s  “Don’t follow us, we’re lost
too!”.

Authors of books on fundamental analysis are either turning in their
graves or pulling their hair out. The US dollar is growing in response
to US weak stats, the pound - in response to a higher risk of
unsuccessful Brexit, and the Aussie - in response to the global trade’s
worse state. Reading books written a few years ago is a silly and even
harmful thing to do now. It’s like eating rotten fruit:

> \- What’s worse than finding a worm in your apple?

>

> -  Finding half a worm in your apple.

![LiteForex: Trade war at the door?][2]

In fact, all is easy. The market is tired of traditional connections,
when better macro-statistics are understood as a reason for a rate rise,
which in its turn raises demand for corresponding currencies. The market
needs some shock linked to new subjects. The subject of the years
2018-2019 was trade wars; the subject of 2020 - coronavirus. It’s the
pandemic that makes US stock indexes move. And they make Forex tools
move, in their turn.  In March, COVID-19 pushed [S&P 500][3] to its
lowest; In April and May, the rumour of a near victory over coronavirus
catalysed its 40% rally. In June, the market is afraid of the second
wave and Fear prevails over Greed again. What’s more, a trade war can
burst out at any time.

I’m sympathetic, intelligent, kind and tender, but not today. Donald
Trump criticizes Jerome Powell again and threatens China with a breakup.
Washington and Brussels can’t agree upon a digital tax. Everyone has
their reasons. Such technological giants as Facebook make enormous
profits from quarantined European users and increase the US budget at
their expense. On the other hand, Robert Lighthizer is right too, saying
that many companies decided to make easy profits by taxing someone
else’s companies...the US companies. But it’s the way it’s always been!

In 2018-2019, Chinese media called Trump “a robber” while the US
president asserted the contrary: it’s China that had been robbing the US
people for decades!

![LiteForex: Trade war at the door?][4]

Still, I hope there will be no trade war and COVID-19 will be brought
under control, if it doesn’t disappear by itself as Trump has promised.
Trump could permit himself to show off two years ago, saying the US
didn’t particularly need a trade agreement with China. But the
presidential election is approaching, and a strong [S&P 500][3] is
Trump’s trump.  As for Beijing... If you don’t want it, you won’t get
it.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of SPX in real time mode

![Forex needs shock][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/cat-19-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=0d88a384f714c84238edab0c1f834265
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/worm-apple-19-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=99c68244b7e0b87a6ac01256c3c20f5e
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/trump-19-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=1e565ffea74c0dfbd77beefc5079da2b
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=forex-needs-shock&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=forex-needs-shock&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/liteforex-blog-forex-19-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=6edc04562d0a1e86cdeaf52e424f9f0c