+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-19"
description = "Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 19, 2020

June 19, 2020

Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USDAlex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

Oil is trading in the middle-term uptrend, whose target is Target Zone 5
[41.67 -  40.92]. Over the past two weeks, the oil price was being
corrected down to the broken out Target Zone 4 [34.17 – 33.42]. After
that, there has started a new upward momentum, which is going now to
break through the local high.

When the local high is updated, we shall rearrange the key support zone.

The oil price will continue rising after reaching TZ5 if it breaks the
zone out and consolidates above. If so, the target will be TZ 6 [49.17 –
48.42].

I recommend entering purchases according to the pattern in the trend key
support zone.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][1]

 **[USCrude][2]Trading tips for the upcoming week: **

Buy according to the pattern in Target Zone [31.01 - 30.11]. TakeProfit:
39.75, Target Zone 5 [41.67 -  40.92]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

Gold price is rising in the middle-term uptrend. The upside target is
the high of May.

Last week, I recommended buying gold according to the false breakout
pattern on the correction at the 50% Fibonacci level. Here is the quote
form the previous weekly analytics:

“For today and next week, I recommend buying gold according to the false
breakout pattern with the first target at Target Zone 5 [1757.2 –
1751.2], the second target is at May high.”

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][3]

As you see, there has been an entry point this week. The price hit the
level of 50%. We can now see the upward momentum developing, so, I
suggest holding up purchases next week. To reduce the risk, you can move
the trades to the breakeven.

I do not recommend selling gold counter to the trend.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][4]

 **[XAUUSD][5]  Trading tips for the upcoming week: **

Hold up purchases entered at level 50%. TakeProfit: Target Zone 5
[1757.2 - 1751.2], 1765.0. StopLoss: at breakeven.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EUR/USD is testing the key support of the middle-term uptrend
[1.1240 – 1.1222]. Yesterday, the US session closed below the zone for
the first time. If the US session closes below level 1.1222 again today
or next week, we shall record the support breakout and start selling the
EUR/USD on the next trading day with the target at Target Zone 2 [1.1058
– 1.1040].

If buyers go ahead and there is a buy momentum, we shall expect a buy
pattern. After there is a buy pattern, we shall look for an entry point
and buy with a target at the high of last week + Target Zone 4 [1.1473 —
1.1455].

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][6]

 **[EURUSD][7]  Trading tips for the upcoming week: **

Buy according to the pattern in Target Zone [1.1240 - 1.1222].
TakeProfit: 1.1420, Target Zone 4 [1.1473 - 1.1455]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][8]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][9] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][10]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/USCrude_analysis_190620.png?w=30&s=b153d8fa289fc4e8f8356230e6e18135
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_120620.png?w=30&s=a8428993f98fbccf1a8274ae0704bda2
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_190620.png?w=30&s=e70035cd4421e00dfa8a0f7d83783b99
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_190620.png?w=30&s=ed09e6ada1bb133d58433b0037bc05d5
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   8. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-2020-06-19&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-2020-06-19&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/forex_forecast_2.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=2ccc61cd811466d7178a1946570436d8