+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-10"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold and EUR/USD for 10.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold and EUR/USD for 10.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=18.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 10, 2020

June 10, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 10.06.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

Oil price is being corrected down in the middle-term uptrend. The
correction target is Target Zone [31.01 – 30.11], it is the key support.
After the zone is tested, it will be relevant to enter new purchases
with a target in Target Zone 5 [41.67 — 40.92].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and EUR/USD for 10.06.2020][1]

Let us look at the shorter timeframe. The local trend is up.

The oil price is being corrected and testing the strong support
Additional Zone [37.76 - 37.54]. The zone is held up by buyers, so,
first, expect a buy pattern.

If there is a buy pattern, we shall buy oil with a target to break
through the high of last week.

Otherwise, if AZ is broken out, we shall sell oil with a target in
Intermediary Zone [35.51 — 35.06].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and EUR/USD for 10.06.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [37.76 - 37.54]. TakeProfit: 40.00, Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [35.51 - 35.06]. TakeProfit: 40.00, Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

Gold price is rising from the trend key support [1673.6 – 1664.4].
Expect a buy pattern and enter purchases with the target at the high of
May.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and EUR/USD for 10.06.2020][4]

Let us look at the shorter timeframe. The short-term downtrend
continues. Buyers are now testing the key resistance Intermediary Zone
[1721.0 – 1716.4].

I suggest waiting to see how traders will behave in the zone. If there
is a sell pattern, we shall sell gold with a target at 1671.5. If IZ is
broken out upside, we shall enter gold purchases with a target in the
upper Target Zone [1771.3 — 1762.2].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and EUR/USD for 10.06.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:  **

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1721.0 - 1716.4].
TakeProfit: 1671.5. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

It is clear from the longer timeframe that the euro-dollar is trading in
the medium-term uptrend. This week, traders have been testing TZ3 trying
to break it downside. It is a strong support, and the price is now
rising.

A little lower than the broken-out TZ3, there is the trend key support.
To enter new middle-term buy positions, I recommend expecting the test
of the key support and looking for a buy pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and EUR/USD for 10.06.2020][7]

Yesterday, traders were testing Intermediary Zone [1.1292 – 1.1283]
trying to break it out. The zone wasn’t broken out, the price started
rising instead and reached Gold Zone 2 [1.1334 - 1.1325]. The buyers
didn’t consolidate the price above the resistance, and the US session
closed the price in the zone.

The price is now trading above Gold Zone 2. If the US session closes the
price above the zone today, the next upside target in the short-term
uptrend will be Target Zone 3 [1.1434 - 1.1416].

Otherwise, the price should break out the support Intermediary Zone, and
the trend will turn down.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and EUR/USD for 10.06.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1292 - 1.1283].
TakeProfit: 1.1382. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 10.06.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_100620_1.png?w=30&s=25e12473dc23d7c66169dca2afa464bb
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_100620_2.png?w=30&s=5e040e229ce395672016a6a13c27e722
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_100620_1.png?w=30&s=28fee9bd7c2da06ed97e2e125c3ff145
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_100620_2.png?w=30&s=9fca5897f43fb97db217ed70415af001
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_100620_1.png?w=30&s=48a25a05cdf4ff1198e6a34ef37a6bec
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_100620_2.png?w=30&s=db7d71a5fc0423144d0a91e63b01d997
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-10062020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-10062020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/oil_55_1000x545.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=8e6c06ee1f89e9d807348d35fbb74523