+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-10"
description = "Turtle soup + 1: efficient Forex strategy"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Turtle soup + 1: efficient Forex strategy"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 10, 2020

June 10, 2020

Turtle soup + 1Dmitri Demidenko

##  **Peculiarities of the popular strategy**

Those who make decisions are responsible for them. A decision to open a
trade is a prerogative of a trader, who needs to take account of market
professionals’ and the crowd’s behaviours. Many traders prefer waiting
for a trading day to close. Thus, the traders who use the [Turtle
soup][1] strategy have some time for thinking a trade over. A trade is
carried over to the next trading day and this updated strategy is called
“Turtle soup + 1”.

The author of this strategy is Linda Raschke. She singled out the
following conditions necessary for forming a trading system:

> \- the market falls to a 20-bar bottom;

>

> \- the previous 20-bar bottom must have formed at least 3 trading
sessions earlier (for the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) chart).

If these conditions are met, a trader can

> \- place a pending order to buy at the previous 20-bar bottom’s
minimum on the second day following the formation of a new 20-bar
bottom;

>

> \- place a protective stop order at the new 20-bar bottom’s minimum or
at the next day’s minimum, depending on which of them is lower, if the
pending buy order has worked;

>

> \- fix a part of profits in 2-6 trading days and use a floating stop
order to control the rest of the position.

The necessary conditions were met for [USD/JPY][2] on the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) chart in
early May: a 20-bar minimum formed and the previous 20-bar minimum had
formed 5 days earlier. A trader waits for a trading day to close and
places a pending order to buy on the day following the formation of the
new 20-bar minimum. The activation of the pending order allows placing a
stop order at the minimum level minus a few points and watching a market
reversal. A part of the position is closed and the market grows by 4.5
figures afterwards.

 **Turtle Soup + 1 strategy on the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) chart of USD/JPY**

![LiteForex: Turtle soup + 1: efficient Forex strategy][3]

Having some time in reserve, a trader can analyse the situation on
different time frames. For example, RSI moved to the oversold zone on
the H1 chart of [USD/JPY][2], which may be a confirming signal of a
correction or a reversal of a bearish trend.

 **Turtle Soup + 1 strategy on USD/JPY’s H1 chart**

![LiteForex: Turtle soup + 1: efficient Forex strategy][4]



The same conditions apply to a bullish Forex market and an ascending
trend:

> \- the market grows to a 20-bar peak;

>

> \- the previous 20-bar peak must have formed at least 3 trading
sessions earlier.

>

> \- a pending order to sell is placed at the previous 20-bar peak’s
maximum on the second day following the formation of a new 20-bar peak;

>

> \- place a protective stop order at the new 20-bar peak’s maximum or
at the next day’s maximum, depending on which of them is higher, if the
pending order has worked;

>

> \- fix a part of profits in 2-6 trading days;

>

> \- use a floating stop order to control the rest of the position.

A good example is the situation which occurred on the [USD/CAD][5]
chart. The distance between the new and the previous 20-day maximums is
8 bars. A position gets opened on the day following the pattern
formation.

 **Turtle Soup + 1 strategy on the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) USD/CAD chart**

![LiteForex: Turtle soup + 1: efficient Forex strategy][6]



With some time in reserve, a trader can switch to a smaller time frame
and see a clear MACD divergence, which is an important reversal signal
in technical analysis.

 **Turtle Soup + 1 strategy on the H1 USD/CAD chart**

 ![LiteForex: Turtle soup + 1: efficient Forex strategy][7]



I think the Turtle Soup + 1 strategy is more interesting than Turtle
Soup.   It doesn’t require an instant reaction and a trader has some
time to think a trade over. On the other hand, a trader may miss out on
a trade while waiting for the second bar - the one which follows the
20-day extremum - to form.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][8]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][9] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>







## Price chart of USDJPY in real time mode

![Turtle soup + 1][10]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/turtle-soup-good-old-things/
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDJPY&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/usdjpy1-10-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=3527b929b2b6b1a28aeefe8c7c8cdd4e
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/usdjpy2-10-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=8a8d3207c1b23a9a8cef2d3758d39153
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCAD&returnUrl=true
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/usdcad1-10-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=1e0693d1add6c9807902a791b68cea57
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/usdcad2-10-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=cc36f08d7233378c31d739558958bf82
   8. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=turtle-soup-1&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=turtle-soup-1&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/liteforex-blog-turtles-10-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=221249a3602828395c0d1e30038ddc22