+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-13"
description = "Australian dollar price forecast 13 April 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Australian dollar price forecast 13 April 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-13

2021-04-13

Aussie acts like a miner's budgie. Forecast as of 13.04.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

When the central bank adopts an unconventional monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) and the
markets are ready to test the regulator's strength, the entire financial
world's attention is focused on this confrontation. How will the RBA win
or lose affect [AUDUSD][1]? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up
a trading plan

## Weekly Australian dollar fundamental forecast

It would seem that after the [AUDUSD][1] sale in March caused by the
growth of US Treasury yields, the slow vaccination rate in Australia,
and the fading of the credit impulse in China, traders have hopelessly
lost interest in the Australian dollar. On the contrary, hedge funds
continue to hold Aussie net longs near the highest levels since
November, hoping that strong local PMI and employment statistics will
help recover the AUDUSD uptrend. This is not the only reason to be
optimistic about the bright future of the Australian dollar.

### Dynamics of [AUDUSD][1] and Australian dollar speculative positions

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Nowadays, the Aussie acts not just as a bird but as a miner's budgie.
Everyone is interested in how the AUD will behave. Unlike the Fed, which
turns a blind eye to the rally in Treasury yields, the RBA does not
intend to abandon the idea of ​​targeting rates on 3-year bonds. As a
result, the suspense is getting more intense. Will the central bank be
able to resist the market in the context of the rapid growth of the
world economy? If the RBA fails, then central banks from other countries
will dismiss this practice as ineffective. However, is it wise to oppose
someone who has a printing press at hand? The Fed and the ECB experience
shows that it is better not to fight the central bank.

The narrowing differential between Australian and US bond yields is not
the only factor that frightens [AUDUSD][1] bulls. In Australia, only 1.2
million people, or 4.6% of the population, received at least one vaccine
dose. For comparison, in the United States, 185 million people have been
inoculated (56.5% of the population). If we take into account the fading
of the credit impulse in China and the seasonal factor in the spread of
the pandemic (summer is approaching in Europe, when the number of
COVID-19 cases usually falls, in Australia it is winter), it becomes
clear that the risks of developing an AUDUSD correction may increase.

### Dynamics of [AUDUSD][1] and credit impulse in China



 _Source: Nordea Markets._

At the same time, no one is stopping Canberra from increasing the speed
of vaccination. Prime Minister Scott Morrison said that Australia would
receive 40 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine in 2021. The slowdown of
the Chinese economy could ultimately play into the hands of the Aussie.
If this happens, the official Beijing will seriously think about
increasing incentives. Besides, the rising of iron ore prices close to
their highs this year and the national economy's strength can explain
why hedge funds are still following longs on [AUDUSD][1].

### Weekly [AUDUSD][1] trading plan

According to the NAB, Australia's business environment, an indicator
that considers hiring, sales, and profits, rose to an all-time high
despite a cut in fiscal support. Bloomberg experts expect unemployment
in Australia to fall to 5.7% in March, the lowest level since the start
of the pandemic. The release of data on Australia's PMI and China's GDP
for the first quarter are key events in the economic [calendar](https://www.fintechee.com/web-trader/) for
[AUDUSD][1]. In my opinion, a breakout of the resistance at 0.767 will
be a signal to buy the pair with targets at 0.79 and 0.8.



## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true