+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-04"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 4, 2020

August 4, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.08.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil is trading in the correction in the medium-term timeframe. The
correction has started from Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. The target of
the down move is the trend key support Target Zone [35.54 - 34.86]. When
the key support is tested, I recommend entering purchases according to
the pattern.

If Target Zone 5 is broken out upside with the price consolidation
above, the next upside target will be TZ 6 [49.17 – 48.42]. In this
case, we shall enter buy trades on the retest of the broken-out zone.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.08.2020][1]

There is not yet a signal to sell oil. A buy pattern is forming now. The
short-term trend is up.

Last week, oil traders reached the trend key support [38.94 – 38.60].
Buyers have responded this week.

Yesterday, the oil price broke out the intraday resistance Additional
Zone [40.34 – 40.19]. The price has consolidated above the zone today.
So, we can enter purchases on the zone’s retest with a stop below the
local low.

If the price goes according to the alternative scenario and breaks
through the local low, there will be a false breakout to sell. According
to this pattern, one could enter a short position with a target at the
low of last week.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.08.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Buy in Additional Zone [40.34 — 40.19] on the retest. TakeProfit: 42.30. StopLoss: 39.42.
  2. If level 39.42 is broken out, sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [40.34 - 40.19]. TakeProfit: 38.60. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold is trading in the middle-term uptrend, the target is Target Zone 9
[1997.2 – 1991.2]. The key support is now in the zone of [1903.0 -
1894.8]. I recommend entering new purchases in the key support zone
according to the pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.08.2020][4]

Let us switch to the shorter timeframe and analyze the gold short-term
trend. The short-term trend is up, the target is Target Zone [1997.1 –
1988.9].

Traders were testing Additional Zone [1964.5 – 1962.5] yesterday. I
recommended looking for buy entries in this zone according to the
pattern. There hasn’t been yet a pattern, so trading recommendations
remain the same.

Another zone with good prices to enter buy trades is the trend key
support [1944.0 – 1940.0]. If the price is corrected down to this zone,
we shall also expect a buy pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.08.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1964.5 - 1962.5]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1997.1 - 1988.9]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1944.0 - 1940.0]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1997.1 - 1988.9]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The EUR/USD tested the key support to the medium-term uptrend [1.1726 –
1.1708] yesterday. I suggest now looking for a buy pattern with a target
to break through the high of last week.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.08.2020][7]

The eurusd short-term trend is down. Traders reached the main sell
target, Target Zone [1.1726 – 1.1708], yesterday. The price is now being
corrected up from this zone, it is approaching the trend key resistance
[1.1796 – 1.1787].

When the price tests the trend key resistance, I suggest entering sell
trades according to the pattern with the target at yesterday’s low.

It will be relevant to buy the euro when the buyers break out the key
resistance and consolidate the price above. In this case, the target
will be the upper Target Zone [1.1896 — 1.1878].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.08.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1796 - 1.1787].
TakeProfit: 1.1698. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.08.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_040820_1.png?w=30&s=f155bab172991d7810c4bc5f9116db4e
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_040820_2.png?w=30&s=15fe57b720a3ca6e9385d58471815675
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_040820_1.png?w=30&s=fafc0a1cefdca2eb9c4ef995096051d8
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_040820_2.png?w=30&s=46f5a3879ded9ed3326c525104a7d78d
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_040820_1.png?w=30&s=a52707675e372a0ba4606ff202c557f3
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_040820_2.png?w=30&s=5dbb4999059a33be42bf6c993d976f7b
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-04082020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-04082020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_143.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=f4f6cf1d55174b98fb34195793adf359