+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-04"
description = "XPTUSD forecast for 04.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "XPTUSD forecast for 04.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=10.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 4, 2020

August 4, 2020

XPTUSD forecast: Platinum sticks to turtle tacticsDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental platinum price forecast for today

### Slow movements of platinum can be deceiving

Platinum quite quickly reached the first of the targets set in the[
previous platinum price forecast][1] at $940 per ounce. But, next, the
price rolled back a little, as traders were concerned the upward
movements of the precious metal sector led by gold were too strong. The
[XPT/USD][2] bulls were encouraged by several growth drivers in July.
They were the weakness of the US dollar, low real yields of the global
bond market, and the hopes for a soon rebound of the euro-area economy.
Many of those factors still work.

Precious metals have some important features that must be considered in
an investment forecast. First, due to the size of the market, they often
follow gold. Second, metal prices are affected by economic cycles. They
go behind the sector leader at the beginning of the recession and often
outperform it during the economic recovery. Thirdly, metal prices are
influenced by the territorial factor. For example, the tightening of
carbon dioxide emissions requirements in China in 2019 sent palladium to
its all-time highs as China is the main consumer of palladium.

The industrial demand for platinum, including autocatalysts production,
accounts for more than 62%, and the main consumer is Europe. With this
regard, it is natural that platinum was weighed on amid the drop in
diesel car production in the euro area by 11% Year-on-Year. Now, the PMI
data signal that the euro-area economy is recovering quite fast, which
encourages the [XPT/USD][2] bulls.

### Dynamics of platinum and euro-area PMI

### ![LiteForex: XPTUSD forecast for 04.08.2020][3]

####  _Source: Trading Economics_

[In the previous article][1], I noted a close correlation between
platinum and the euro. It is based on the benefits of a strong currency
for imports. I should also note that the French-German fiscal stimulus
plan also includes significant spending on solving environmental
problems, which suggests a positive long-term outlook for the
[XPT/USD][2].

According to speculative positioning, the euro has not exhausted its
growth potential. However, if the euro-area economy follows the example
of China, whose economic recovery is gradually slowing down, there will
the reasons for the correction of the [EUR/USD][4] and platinum.

### Dynamics of EUR speculative positioning

![LiteForex: XPTUSD forecast for 04.08.2020][5]

 _Source: Nordea Markets_

Some [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s may compare platinum with a turtle, as it doesn’t make
such strong, sharp moves as gold or silver. However, turtles are known
to be the winners in the long run. The [XPT/USD][2] should be growing
slowly but steadily, amid the faster recovery of the euro-area economy
than the US growth in 2020-2021.

The uncertainty around pandemic will make central banks stick to the
ultra-easy monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) for a long time, which is a bullish driver
for the entire precious metals sector. The weakness of the US dollar,
the euro strengthening, and the growth in the demand for environmental
projects and autocatalysts in Europe suggest that it is relevant to hold
the XPT/USD longs opened [in early July ][1]and add up to the purchases
on the corrections. I suggest the medium-term targets be at $1050 and
$1130.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XPTUSD in real time mode

![XPTUSD forecast: Platinum sticks to turtle tactics][8]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/xptusd-forecast-platinum-is-to-start-rising/
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XPTUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/pmi-platinum-04-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=44511cf25139994328e76ff17add1352
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/euro-cftc-04-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=c6eef6a112af408b602b030fe5dda571
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=xptusd-forecast-platinum-sticks-to-turtle-tactics&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=xptusd-forecast-platinum-sticks-to-turtle-tactics&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-plftinum-04-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=e05f9b082613fa70388a1fd03d7d6cab