+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-09-21"
description = "Palldium and platinum price forecast 21 September 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Palldium and platinum price forecast 21 September 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-09-21

2021-09-21

Platinum-group metals are trading down. Forecast as of 21.09.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

In early 2021, [XPDUSD][1] and [XPTUSD][2] were growing in price, but
the market sentiment has changed now. This is due to a shortage of
semiconductors and a sharp drop in automotive demand. Let us discuss
this topic and make up a trading plan.

## Quarterly fundamental forecast for platinum and palladium

Sharp supply cuts due to the pandemic and hopes for a robust global
economic recovery driven by fiscal and monetary stimulus allowed
palladium and platinum to hit all-time and a seven-year high in May and
February, respectively. However, the reality does not always meet
expectations. Due to the lack of semiconductors, the [XPDUSD][1] and
[XPTUSD][2] bulls were set back. Drawdowns by 37% and 31.2% look
impressive, but the prices could continue falling.

Automakers consume around 80% of the roughly 10 million ounces of
palladium used each year and 40% of platinum demand of 8 million ounces
a year, making platinum less vulnerable to the chip shortage. Around 7
million fewer light vehicles will be produced this year than initially
thought pressing down the demand for precious metals. Platinum-group
metals are down, which is worsened by the bearish trend in gold, the
leader of the precious metals sector, amid the Fed's intention to
normalize monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/).

The longer the semiconductor shortage lasts, the worse the analysed
assets will perform. However, prices could recover in 2022-2023. Both
platinum and palladium will face huge stockpiling over the medium term,
while automakers have cut inventories and will be forced to overproduce
once the chip shortage is resolved. Considering the permanent supply
shortage in the past and the higher share of use in the production of
catalytic converters, the price rebound for the [XPDUSD][1] is more
likely than for the [XPTUSD][2].

### Dynamics of balance of platinum-group metals market



 _Source_ _: Reuters_

On the other hand, The World Platinum Investment Council expects higher
costs of palladium, used in vehicle pollution-control devices, to spur a
gradual switch by automakers to using more platinum. However, this
factor did not work very well before the pandemic.

Thus, the long-term outlook for platinum-group metals amid a potential
overproduction of cars in the second half of 2022 - in 2023 looks
bullish. Nevertheless, the downtrend will hardly reverse in the medium
term. Therefore, speculators increased platinum short positions to the
highest level since early 2019. Palladium short positions have been the
highest over at least 4.5 years.

### Dynamics of platinum speculative positions

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

### Dynamics of palladium speculative positions

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

### Quarterly trading plan for platinum and palladium

The market is bearish. If [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s consider the FOMC September
forecasts for the interest rates, gold will drop, triggering new sell-
offs in other precious metals. Platinum could go down to $830 and $725,
and palladium could drop to $1670 and $1590 per ounce. I recommend
selling both metals.



## Price chart of XPTUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XPDUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XPTUSD