+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-17"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 17.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 17.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 17, 2020

June 17, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 17.06.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

The oil price started rising at the beginning of the week. The
corrective movement stopped in the broken-out Target Zone 4 [34.17 –
33.42].

Remember, the upside target is Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. The best
buy prices are in the trend key support zone [31.01 — 30.11].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 17.06.2020][1]

The oil short-term trend is up. Last week and on Monday, traders were
testing the trend key support zone Intermediary Zone [35.51 – 35.06].
The zone hasn't been broken out, and there has formed a double bottom
pattern to buy.

For today, I suggest expecting a buy entry according to the pattern and
entering oil purchases with the target at the June’s high + Target Zone
5 [41.67 – 40.92].

It will be relevant to sell oil when the price breaks out IZ and
consolidates below.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 17.06.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [35.51 - 35.06].
TakeProfit: 40.00, Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

This week, there was a gold buy entry according to the false breakout
pattern. The price was corrected down to the 59% Fibonacci level, next,
it rebounded up and is now trading above the level. I recommend holding
up middle-term gold buy trades with the target at the high of May.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 17.06.2020][4]

In the shorter timeframe, gold is trading in the local uptrend with the
upside target at Target Zone. The price is now trading between the
resistance 1729.3 and the support 1719.4. The upward momentum will
continue when the price breaks the resistance out and consolidates
above.

The gold short-term trend will turn down if traders break out the trend
key support [1698.9 – 1694.3]. If so, the downside target will be the
lower Target Zone. I don’t consider this scenario yet.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 17.06.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:  **

Hold up trades entered at level 1705.6. TakeProfit: 1764.4. StopLoss:
1687.2.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EUR/USD is testing the key support of the medium-term uptrend
[1.1240 — 1.1222]. The price has rebounded up from the support level.
However, there isn’t yet a buy pattern. Expect either the buy pattern or
the trend reversal down.

The trend will turn down if bears break out Target Zone and consolidate
the price below the low of last week. In this case, we shall consider
sell trades down to Target Zone 2 [1.1058 — 1.1040].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 17.06.2020][7]

The EUR/USD short-term trend is down. The price retested the support
Target Zone [1.1240 – 1.1222] yesterday. Today, the price is being
corrected up following the drop yesterday.

If the price tests the trend key resistance [1.1312 – 1.1303], I
recommend entering a sell trade with the target at the low of 1.1215.

If the price breaks out Intermediary Zone upside and consolidates above,
the short-term trend will turn up. If so, it will be relevant to enter
purchases on the correction with the target in the upper Target Zone
[1.1412 - 1.1394].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 17.06.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:   **

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1312 - 1.1303].
TakeProfit: 1.1215. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 17.06.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_170620_1.png?w=30&s=87d5313a64bf2352f8dba763de2f172f
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_170620_2.png?w=30&s=5e6ab0e115f163e52bda914adb3df3ab
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_170620_1.png?w=30&s=d48adbfafd8af4b6ef9a4b2a2532f773
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_170620_2.png?w=30&s=6cf72f7e9ed68f61604da82386543665
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_170620_1.png?w=30&s=2611e517d978d18a67ffda59a86d0a9c
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_170620_2.png?w=30&s=0e792cdb92f33e1b49557883517325d9
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-17062020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-17062020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_86.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=ce24340681c95401a36104deac7205ce