+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-17"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 17.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 17.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 17, 2020

June 17, 2020

Dollar: is the glass half-full or half-empty?Dmitri Demidenko

## The U.S. dollar is responsive to the market sentiment, optimistic or
pessimistic

If the glass is half full for Donald Trump, for Jerome Powell, it is
half empty. The Fed Chairman, during his speech to Congress, said a full
US economic recovery will not occur until the American people are sure
that the coronavirus epidemic has been brought under control. Despite an
improvement of some economic indicators, production and employment are
still below the pre-crisis levels. Besides, there is still great
uncertainty about the strength and the [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of the US GDP rebound. Once
the central bank’s president suggested uncertainty, the US dollar has
strengthened. As I have stressed many times, all kinds of uncertainty
support safe-haven demand.

The Fed has managed to stabilize the US stock market using the huge
monetary stimulus. At present, however, the Federal Reserve seems to be
concerned about a too fast rally of the S&P 500. The epic rally of the
US stocks obviously includes a speculative element, the bubble is being
inflated, and, if there is a second wave of COVID-19, it will
immediately burst. The White House accuses Jerome Powell of being too
pessimistic, but the Fed’s president is a realist who realizes that it
is better to show restraint than build castles in the sky.

Financial markets are quite responsive to the speeches of the Fed’s
Chairman. The growth of retail sales in May by 17.7% M-o-M, which is the
best performance since the record began in 1992, has provided only
temporary support to the S&P 500. Investors still realize that the
indicator is below the pre-crisis level ($485 billion compared to $527
billion in February), and has contracted by 6.1% on an annual basis.
That is what Jerome Powell was talking about, there are already some
positive signs, but the general outlook is still grim.

 **Dynamics of US retail sales**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 17.06.2020][1]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Therefore, the dollar is supported by uncertainty, and the euro buyers
are nervous ahead of the EU summit on June 18-19, where the fiscal
stimulus issues will be discussed. The French-German plan is adopted de
facto, but it is still to be legally approved. According to the German
government, the ECB actions should be explained to the German
Constitutional court by the Bundesbank. The Bundesbank, by the way, has
already presented all the benefits of the European QE on its [website](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/website-for-forex-trading/).

The inflation slowdown increases the risk of the QE expansion, which
won’t be the bullish factor for the [EUR/USD][2] as the euro-area
economy is recovering. According to Citigroup, the extra €600 billion
added by Christine Lagarde and her colleagues in early June do not meet
the borrowing needs of the euro-area countries. The ECB will have to
boost the QE by at least another €150 billion. Otherwise, Italy’s bond
yield will start rising again. The euro still has its flaws, but all the
problems can be solved.

 **Fiscal and monetary stimulus in the Eurozone**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 17.06.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The weak response of the S&P 500 to the US strong retail sales data is
the bad [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) for the [EUR/USD][2] bulls. Another negative factor is the
uncertainty around COVID-19 and the US economic rebound. However, if you
believe that the glass is half-full, you could bet on the breakout of
the top of the consolidation range 1.124-1.134.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar: is the glass half-full or half-empty?][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/retail-sales-17-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=511b2e03c84acc3f3e034d5c9a1b684b
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/ecb-buying-17-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=1756934ca52f294e6e4df899de1cfe66
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-is-the-glass-half-full-or-half-empty&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-is-the-glass-half-full-or-half-empty&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-17-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=bcf7fe27d114a2c96882b01252f6cc7e