+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-17"
description = "Forecast for DAX 30 for 17th June 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for DAX 30 for 17th June 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 17, 2020

June 17, 2020

DAX 30: Citius, Altius, FortiusDmitri Demidenko

## German stock index outruns US counterparts. And it’s just a beginning

The epic rally of [S&P 500][1] proved once again that stock indexes
recover faster than GDP after a recession. If this theorem is correct, a
faster growth of a stock market correlates with the corresponding
economy’s faster return to the trend. In this regard, the 40% rally of
S&P 500 from March’s maximums isn’t as impressive as German [DAX
30][2]’s 50% retracement from the bottom. Germany will recover faster
than the US. It is positive [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) for both the euro and the fans of the
eurozone’s largest economy.

Global [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s had stood aside off European stock indexes for a long
time, fearing a split in the EU where rich countries didn’t feel glad
about having to help poorer members. Much changed after Berlin and Paris
took the initiative and suggested a large fiscal stimulus, which cheered
the markets up. According to BofA Merrill Lynch, the portfolio share of
European stocks increased by 24 pct over the last month. It’s the best
dynamics for any region for that period.

Germany is a ray of light and makes medium- and long-term prospects of
[DAX 30][2] brighter. The main drivers of the stock index are a hope for
a fast recovery of the German economy, large fiscal and monetary
stimuli, step-by-step improvement of corporate reports and a high global
risk appetite. According to the OECD’s forecasts, the German GDP will
reduce by 6.6% in 2020 in the absence of the second wave of COVID-19
(for comparison, the US GDP will drop 7.3%). Taking into account the
latest relief package of 130 billion euro, the Bundesbank expects that
the economy will fall 6.1% this year and recover 3.7% and 3.8% in
2021-2022, respectively.

 **OECD’s forecasts for GDP**

![LiteForex: Forecast for DAX 30 for 17th June 2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

A softer lockdown and the success of the German health care system
allowed reopening the national economy faster. The share of the people
employed in the most affected sectors in Germany is lower than in other
big states while the fiscal stimulus amount is higher. It allows
counting on a fast GDP growth as soon as the situation has been brought
back under control.

 **The share of the people employed in the hardest-hit sectors**

![LiteForex: Forecast for DAX 30 for 17th June 2020][4]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

 **Fiscal stimulus in % of GDP**

![LiteForex: Forecast for DAX 30 for 17th June 2020][5]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The ECB’s firm intention to keep European bond market rates at a low
level and the big share of industrial stocks in the structure of [DAX
30][2] are bullish factors. Obviously, the industrial sector will be
recovering faster in the post-pandemic period than the service sector,
which will be afraid of the second wave.

I think that the main dangers to the German stock market are the
epidemiological situation’s worsening and a renewal of the US-China
trade war.  If these don’t happen, [DAX 30][2] may be bought safely at
resistance breakouts of 12,450 and 12,840. The initial targets are at
13,720 and 13,860.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of FDAX in real time mode

![DAX 30: Citius, Altius, Fortius][8]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=FDAX&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/forecast-gdp-17-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=d0c1d35f4f87cbbbbba1ecf3c40d4921
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/labor-markets-17-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=c84ce3d730e1caba5c1fc77ab326492f
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/fiscal-stimulus-17-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=fd70ce44239e9a1bd7ba45a41b4abe66
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dax-30-citius-altius-fortius&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dax-30-citius-altius-fortius&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-dax-17-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=e55d0600f34c6559cc2ec82e404643df