+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-16"
description = "Euro price forecast October 16 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast October 16 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-16

2020-10-16

Euro is rolling down. Forecast as of 16.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The EURUSD is being corrected down amid several negative factors. They
are growing political risks in the USA, the second pandemic wave in
Europe, and the high risk of a no-deal Brexit. Let us discuss how bad
the situation is and male up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

##  **Weekly euro fundamental forecast**

The [EURUSD][1] is down to its two-week low for several reasons. The US
stock indexes have been trading down for three consecutive days;
additional restrictions are introduced in Paris and London because of
COVID-19. Besides, the EU officials announce that agreeing a "fair" new
partnership with Britain was "worth every effort" but that the bloc
would not compromise at any cost, which sends the pound down. The euro
bulls are trying to consolidate the price at the bottom of figure 17,
betting on China’s rebound and the ECB’s unwillingness to boost the
monetary stimulus before December.

China has attracted $6 billion in the dollar-backed obligations, which
repeats the record of 2019. According to the median forecast of the
financial analysts polled by the Wall Street Journal, China’s GDP will
grow by 5.3% Y-o-Y in the third-quarter report, which is much higher
than in the April-June period (+3.2%) and close to the data recorded in
2019 (6.1%). The foreign demand for Chinese securities and the optimism
about economic rebound allowed the yuan to compensate for most losses
resulted from PBoC’s FX interventions. These facts support the euro.

The euro bulls are also encouraged by the ECB’s unwillingness to expand
the monetary stimulus at its October meeting. Despite a sharp downturn
of the euro-area economy amid the second pandemic waves, the ECB
officials believe there is no need yet to ease the monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/).
According to the head of the Bank of Holland, Klaas Knot, the regulator
needs additional information. The ECB Vice-President Luis de Guindos
believes that since less than half of the money in the QE framework has
been spent, there is no need to boost asset purchases.

###  **ECB monetary stimulus spending**

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The euro is supported by the fact that China’s economy is growing, and
the ECB is unlikely to take active measures. However, the dollar demand
increases amid the political uncertainty in the US associated with a
lower global risk appetite, which sets the [EURUSD][1] bulls back.

The number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits rose by 898
thousand in the week ended October 10th, proving the US labor market
needs an additional fiscal stimulus. A poor reading has sent the [S&P
500][2] down and strengthened the greenback. Investors still bet on the
Democrats’ victory on November 3. However, they are not willing to buy
US stocks now, as they remember how Hillary Clinton, who was leading in
the ratings, eventually lost to Donald Trump. If the US stock indices
continue falling, the market situation will be similar to that of 2017.
At that time, the ECB, discontent with the euro strengthening, used
verbal interventions, and the pair failed to consolidate above 1.2.

###  **Dynamics of EURUSD in 2017 and 2020**



 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

### Weekly **[EURUSD][1] **trading plan

Remarkably, the EURUSD trend depends on the pound now. The UK is
discontent with the EU's willingness to prepare for a no-deal Brexit can
drop the [GBPUSD][3] deeper and send the euro towards $1.159-$1.162. I
suggest one continue holding down the [EURUSD][1] shorts entered at
level 1.178.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-is-rolling-down-forecast-as-of-16102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-is-rolling-down-forecast-as-of-16102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus