+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-16"
description = "Markets wait for Brexit verdict"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Markets wait for Brexit verdict"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-16

2020-10-16

Pound can stare anyone down. Review as of 16.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The market knows that the pound’s fate is decided at the last moment,
and to its favor usually. Will [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) repeat itself this time?

## Britain and the EU try to stare each other down, waiting for
concessions. Who will lose?

Since the 2016 Brexit referendum, the pound sterling has outlived three
Prime Ministers, five REPO rate changes, sudden interruptions in
trading, and, finally, the pandemic. Due to its high sensitivity to
political risks and high volatility, the pound is often called “the
Great British Peso” (GBP) and compared with developing countries’
currencies.

However, the traders who work with the pound know the biggest troubles
are solved at the last moment. What is more important is to endure the
instability until the trade is concluded. GBPUSD bulls believed
sincerely that the 15-16 October EU summit would be the Day X. It
wouldn’t.

Optimists flooded the market on the belief that London and Brussels will
sign a deal at the last moment. They ignored negative [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) and bought
the pound amid the rumors that the parties would continue the talks even
if London had passed an Internal Market Bill, violating the EU’s
previous agreement’s [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/). I don’t see any progress in that dialogue.

> \- Can you see the cow eating grass up there?

>

> \- Wait, where’s the grass?

>

> \- The cow’s eaten it.

>

> \- And where’s the cow?

>

> \- Why should the cow be there if the grass’s already been eaten?

The European Union thinks that a fair partnership with Britain is worth
the current effort. However, Brussels isn’t ready to make a deal at any
cost. London is surprised to hear that it’s the one who has to make
every first step in the future. They believe it’s an unusual approach to
negotiation. The parties are waiting for mutual concessions, but either
of them hopes to stare the other party down. Someone has to go back on
their word, but if you learned to be satisfied with little, you might
learn to be satisfied with nothing.

At first glance, Britain will lose more as the EU is its main partner.
However, a no-deal Brexit will leave scars on both faces. They will
aggravate a record high recession in the eurozone and the UK’s worst
economic decline over the last 300 years.

> \- Hold on! Your last gasp is near.

>

> \- You mean, my second wind?

>

> \- No, your last gasp.

However, a no-deal Brexit isn’t a reason for panics for sure. A divorce
is always a tragedy, but then people can say they lived happily ever
after. Because they never saw each other anymore. Still, the parties
will have to see each other. They will have to make new deals under the
WTO’s [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) and discuss financial and other companies’ future. But that
will be tomorrow, and today the market’s worried about the pound.

The pound got used to any trade’s being made at the last moment. Thus, a
no-deal Brexit might not be factored in its quotes. The markets believe
that a deal will be signed. And if not? A collapse of [GBPUSD][1] will
be quite possible. What is good about the pandemic is that it taught us
not to worry about the future. We don’t know what will happen tomorrow.
We just hope tomorrow will come.

{motivation}



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true