+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-11-04"
description = "3-Touch Model: Three Indians Armed with Wedges"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "3-Touch Model: Three Indians Armed with Wedges"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-11-04

2021-11-04

Three Indians pattern: disassembling the 3-touch strategyDmitri
Demidenko

The idea that "trend is your friend, trade with the trend" is good, but
excessive confidence never did anyone any good. Trends tend to unfold
very quickly against the backdrop of a gradual profit-taking by large
players. You can, of course, bet on euphoria, depletion of the life
cycle of the trend, but without signals from the technical analysis
identifying such situations can be extremely challenging. A group of
counter-trend trade patterns, including the [1-2-3 pattern we have
discussed in detains][1], can provide us with such signals. Today we
will talk about another very popular graphic configuration - **_Three
Little Indians_.**

The article covers the following subjects:

## Three Indians Pattern: History and Description of the Model

For the first time, I encountered this pattern in Linda Raschke's
Secrets of Top Trading Performance, although I later realized that I had
used it in my trading long before that. For example, in harmonious
trading there is a very similar pattern Three Movements, and in
candlestick analysis there are the Three Mountains and Three Rivers. We
will talk about the variations of the pattern in our subsequent
articles, but now I will try to explain its _**economic essence**_.

Obviously, sooner or later, a trend is exhausted. In the bullish market
there are fewer and fewer buyers who are ready to buy the asset at
current prices and, vice versa, on the bearish market - sellers who
believe in the continuation of the south-bound movement. Large players
are waiting for a signal to a change in the trend and, as soon as it
comes, they begin to close the previously formed positions. Three
consecutive extremes - the little Indians - appear in the chart. In this
case, _**the inability of the bulls to move quotes much higher indicates
their weakness**_ and launches a wave of sales.

To identify the pattern, several methods are used: _**visual**_ (it
involves visual search of three peaks successively formed in the
conditions of an upward trend);  _ **linear**_ (the first two Indians
draw a line, its intersection with the chart allows to determine the
place where the third extremum will be located); and the _**culmination
method**_ (the pattern is considered formed if the quotes after the
completion of the third peak have returned to the highest level of the
second Indian).

The pattern trading is diverse and suitable for both aggressive and
conservative traders. The former can act in accordance with the
previously described [test systems][2]. They must be prepared for
numerous losses, which are then easily cancelled out by one successful
transaction. The position is opened at the closing of the test bar of
line 1-2, provided that it is located below this diagonal resistance.
Simply put, there must be an unsuccessful test of the line of the first
two Indians. The protective stop order is narrow and is at a level a few
pips above the current high. _**A trader must understand what they are
risking**_ because they act against the trend.



In the case of peak trading, the entry point is at the highest level of
the second Indian bar, the stop order is at the previous extremum. This
approach is ideal for conservative traders who tend to _**win time and
carefully prepare for each trade.**_

The pattern occurs quite often, so _ **it's not easy to trade**_ _
**without a filter system**_. These may include divergence on
indicators, and the minimum depth of rollback, but personally I'm more
impressed by the combination of several graphic configurations, or a so-
called pattern in a pattern. In the case of the emergence of the
derivative and main Three Little Indians patterns, the risks of reversal
increase.

As for exit points from the position, you can use both the profit
factor, harmonious trade methods, and the emergence of reverse patterns.
We have talked about these methods [earlier][1].

## Three Movements, Three Mountains, Three Rivers: Candlestick Patterns
and Filters

A combination of patterns, harmonious trade, indicator and candlestick
analysis increases the efficiency of strategy development.

A novice trader in their search of the Holy Grail would browse the
entire Internet, enroll for courses, become an avid visitor of webinars,
and download tons of books. In fact, all they need is to _**find one or
several working models, carefully study them along with money management
rules, adjust the filter system and start trading.**_ If the experience
turns out to be successful, you can use it all your life, if it doesn't
- adopt a new strategy. Work on the pattern involves not only its
detailed study, but also the creation of a set of rules that increase
the efficiency of trade. We talked about them in the materials on [1-2-3
pattern][1], it's time to talk more about the Three Little Indians.

 I was once a little surprised to see different names for seemingly
identical graphic configurations. In harmonious trade, there are Three
Movements, in candlestick analysis - Three Mountains and Three Rivers. A
little later I realized that the _ **identification of the model by
different authors strengthens its analytical significance**_. If
different people see the same patterns in the chart, the extrapolation
principles will work. The question is [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) make them effective.

Constructed on the basis of Japanese candlestick analysis' Three
Mountains and Three Rivers, unlike the pattern created by Linda Raschke,
Three Little Indians can be used as a kind of filter. For these graphic
configurations, three consecutive extremes are not enough. _**It is
required that at the top of the last high or low, a candlestick reversal
pattern is formed**_. Whether it's a Hammer, a Hanged man, a Morning or
Evening Star, Bullish or Bearish Engulfing, or another pattern.

We cannot really say that there is no such thing in Western technical
analysis. I, for example, am always happy to find a so-called "pattern
in a pattern", which is when a derivative pattern appears in the parent
graphic configuration. This is what happened around the formation of a
large third Indian and is, in my opinion, _**a very serious signal for
the reversal of the previous trend**_.

Despite the fact that Three Little Indians, as, indeed, the previously
described [1-2-3][1], [Expanding Wedge][3], and other patterns,
represent the price action, i.e., trade without indicators, _**traders
can very well use combined strategies**_. With this approach, the
calculated indicators, whether MACD, [Stochastic Oscillator](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/stochastic-oscillator.html), Relative
Strength Index or others, serve as filters. They do not signal the
opening of the position, they only allow you to sort out potentially
profitable trades. As a rule, divergence - the discrepancy between the
dynamics of the indicator and the instrument - is used. In the case of
EUR/USD, the peaks of the currency pair chart are growing (resulting in
the formation of the Three Little Indians), while the MACD highs, on the
contrary, are declining. The discrepancy in their movement allows the
trader to enter the market with more confidence.

The pattern Three Movements is part of the harmonious trade system,
therefore requires clear correlarions based on Fibonacci numbers.
Rollbacks and projections should correspond to the levels 38.2%, 50%,
61.8%, 78.6%, 127.2% and 161.8% (or otherwise) _ **to be considered a
working model**_. Otherwise it should not be traded.

In my opinion, _**the market is not so harmonious**_ so as to seek the
target point (the point of formation of the next Indian) at the level of
only 161.8% based on a correction of 61.8% from the previous wave. Thus,
you could miss profitable trades. Another thing is to use combinations
of significant numbers and ratios.

## Broadening Wedge reversal pattern based on Three Indians

Trading against the trend is often compared to a try to stop an
approaching tram. At best, your nails will be harmed. Nevertheless, all
trends reverse sooner or later. You just need to know the signs to save
your limbs. Finally, everything can turn out like in a fairy tale: you
extend your hand and the tram stops. One of these signs is **_a deeper,
compared to the previous one, correction_** in the current trend. Big
traders showed their will to break it and are trying to find out whether
their opponents have enough power to extend the present move. If they
have run out of power, it is time to go ahead for a counter attack and
impose your own conditions.

In the previous articles, I explained in detail Three Little Indians
reversal pattern and its varieties, without any regard to the rollback
depth. If we take it into account, we’ll get a completely different view
on trading with this pattern. If the second Indian is followed by a
deeper correction than the first one, it builds the ground for emerging
[Broadening Wedge pattern][4] and makes the **_trend more likely to
reverse._**

Remember, wedges, as a rule, suggest a higher volatility, that is a
**_more intensive fight between sellers and buyers._** To identify
Broadening Wedge correctly you need to repaint the marking: the
correction extreme after the first high becomes point 1, the second
Indian – point 2; following it rollback – point 3, the third high in the
bullish market (low in the bearish one) – point 4. Now, you only need to
wait until point 5 emerges that must be lower than point 3, provided the
original uptrend (it will be higher, if the trend is downward).

Trading with Broadening Wedge pattern based on Three Little Indians is
the same as the application of it based on 1-2-3 pattern. Traders use
Fibonacci grid applied to wave 4-5, besides, **rollbacks to the levels
of 23.6%, 38.2% and 50% suggest considering sales** on the price
rebounds from the resistance levels; as in the example of GBP/JPY.
Conservative approach suggests going short if the quotes go back to the
previous price levels (if the price reaches 50% and goes back to 38,2%,
then we sell). Protective stop order is set in the zone of the
retracement high. Remember, if the currency pair reaches 78.6% and
88.6%, Broadening Wedge becomes a continuation pattern.

Trading with this pattern is easily combined with other technical tools,
both indicators and price action patterns. For example, if traders think
that Fibonacci levels are not a sufficient signal to enter a trade, they
can also apply Three Indians during a correction to open short
positions. **_The pattern should preferably emerge close to an important
resistance level_. **As ****in the case with AUD/USD, when the price
went back to the low of the second Indian bar, trader could press SELL.
The stop order was set above the retracement high.



Broadening Wedge, based on either 1-2-3, or Three Little Indians is a **
_strong reversal pattern._** If you use it in applied trading, you can
make it far more efficient. Then, you won’t be afraid of extending your
arm to stop the approaching tram.

## Three Indians reverse the Trend: A Harmonious Approach

Any trend will end, sooner or later. Deeper corrections, as compared
with the previous ones, and a currency pair’s inability to hold above a
certain level for a long time say that the dominant strength, either
bullish or bearish, is exhausted. As a result, there appears a set of
several extremums which is called [Three little Indians][5] in technical
analysis. We have mentioned the pattern in our blog many times, but the
question of the last maximum/minimum’s identification remains open.

 ** _A classic approach,_** whose founder is Linda Raschke, the author
of the best-seller “Street Smarts: High Probability Short-Term Trading
Strategies”, suggests a visual identification of the third Indian. The
trading strategy is supposed to form as soon as the quotes have returned
to the previous extremum. However, there are some other methods which
allow opening a position much earlier - once the currency pair bounced
from an important resistance level. For example, **_a modern approach_**
determines the third extremum using the trend line plotted through the
two first extremums.   In an example with [USD/CHF][6], it proved to be
quite efficient:  the uptrend reversed after the Three little Indians
pattern formed.

###  **Three little Indians pattern in USD/CHF chart, modern approach**

The third method links the pattern to harmonious trading. **_The level
of the third Indian is computed using 1.272 factor_** , which is nothing
more than a number in the Fibonacci sequence. The following formula is
applied to the bullish market:

> ER3 = ER1 +1,272*(ER2 - ER1), where

>

> ER1, ER2, and ER3 are the currency rates at the first, the second and
the third extremums

The pivot point for the bearish market is computed in the same way:

>  ER3 = ER1 - 1,272*(ER2 - ER1).

An example with [USD/CAD][7] proves that the modern approach wouldn’t
have been favourable to a trader: the pair never reached the analytical
line drawn through the first and the second Indians. The calculation
showed where the important support level, transformed into resistance
afterwards, was.

###  **Harmonious approach to Three little Indians pattern**

To benefit from the Three little Indians pattern, one didn’t have to
wail till [USD/CAD][7] quotes returned to the bottom of the second
extremum at 1.3255. A short position could be opened two figures higher
- at the breakout of support at 1.3455. Further retracements would allow
building up short positions. A stop order was supposed to be placed at
the top of the market. Only when the pair returned to that level, one
could understand that the pattern hadn’t worked out and the uptrend
would most likely continue.

###  **Strategy of work using Three little Indians pattern**

Some other tools of technical analysis can be used to confirm the
efficiency of a potential trade. If **_Pivot points_** are close to the
calculation level, a trader becomes more confident about opening a
position.    The same applies to **_divergence_** formed in the currency
pair’s and MACD’s chart:  both in the case when the market reversed
because of Three little Indians and afterwards, it helped open short
positions in [USD/CAD][7].

####  **Complex trading strategy based on Three little Indians pattern**



One may be sceptical about calculation levels or harmonious trading in
general, but they often provide what is necessary - the result.
Identifying the third Indian mathematically won’t take much time, but
the return will certainly compensate for the efforts.

## Powerful Forex Pattern Combination Strategy

The old ways are the best ways. There have appeared lots of price/action
patterns over the last years and their developers promise huge profits.
However, they all need to be **_thoroughly tested_** ** _._**   Unlike
those “new arrivals”, such  ** _patterns as Three little Indians,_**[ **
_1-2-3_**][1] ** _or_**[ ** _Ross hooks_**][8] ** _are time-proven._**
And they continue showing excellent performance on various time frames
and currency pairs. A reversal of the [EUR/USD][9]’s uptrend is the best
proof of classic price/action patterns’ efficiency.

Let’s remember that the bulls in the main currency pair felt extremely
optimistic at the beginning of 2020. The USA and China announced a
cease-fire in the trading war, which was supposed to have a positive
effect on China’s and Eurozone’s efficiency. Bloomberg’s experts made a
forecast of $1.16 for 1 euro at the end of the year. However, technical
analysts raised an alarm as early as at the very beginning of January:
there appeared 3 raising maximums on the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) chart of [EUR/USD][9], a
reversal pattern known as “Three little Indians”.   **_Bulls’ inability
to move quotes above the last peak, the third Indian, is a clear sign of
their weakness._**  Aggressive strategies imply that the return of a
pair to the peak of the second Indian is a reason for opening a short
position. A protective stop order is placed a bit higher than the last
extremum.

###  **Three Indians in EUR/USD chart**



What’s more, following Three little Indians, the 1-2-3 pattern appeared
on the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) time frame. It’s a pattern where the second peak is lower
than the first one. **_The buyers don’t have the strength to update the
previous peak, which is another sign of their weakness._**  A classic
approach to the 1-2-3 pattern implies going short at the breakout of the
diagonal support line drawn through point 2. A protective stop order is
placed a bit above point 3. If the quotes return there, the bulls aren’t
as weak as they could seem at first.

###  **1-2-3 pattern on EUR/USD chart**



A trader may doubt that an uptrend will reverse if only Three Little
Indians or only 1-2-3 appears in the chart, but **_a combination of
those patterns is much more persuasive._** Next, the process of money-
making becomes a mere question of technics. Following the popular
price/action patterns on the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) time frame, there appeared a few Ross
hooks which allowed building up a short position. Let me remind you that
a breakout of the latest minimum after which a slight retracement took
place is a reason for selling [EUR/USD][9]. A stop order is placed
traditionally a bit above the last peak.

###  **Ross hooks in EUR/USD chart**

Any trading system is incomplete if a trader doesn’t know when to close
a trade. In the example of selling the EUR/USD, harmonious trading is
here to help. A target at 113% according to the Shark pattern is placed
near the level of 1.08. Thus, when entering at 1.12 (Three little
Indians), 1.115 (1-2-3 pattern), 1.1085 and 1.099 (Ross hooks), the
profit could have been 1,225 points (400+350+285+190). With a 1:100
leverage, a deposit could have increased manyfold within 1.5 months!

###  **Shark in EUR/USD chart**

Still, one needs to know how price/action patterns work. And it’s not an
impossible task even for a beginner trader. The LiteForex blog provides
a variety of [trading strategies](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/) and **_opening a trading account is
enough for using them in practice._**

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/100-most-efficient-forex-chart-patterns/1-2-3-pattern-candlestick-model-trading/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/trading-against-the-trend-peaks-and-tests/
   3. liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/coyote-tactics-the-expanding-wedge-will-show-the-way/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/coyote-tactics-the-expanding-wedge-will-show-the-way/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/100-most-efficient-forex-chart-patterns/three-indians-pattern-disassembling-the-3-touch-strategy/
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCHF
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCAD
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/ross-hooks-efficient-forex-pattern/
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=100-most-efficient-forex-chart-patterns&slug2=three-indians-pattern-disassembling-the-3-touch-strategy&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=100-most-efficient-forex-chart-patterns&slug2=three-indians-pattern-disassembling-the-3-touch-strategy&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus