+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-11-04"
description = "US dollar price forecast 4 November 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 4 November 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=10.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-11-04

2021-11-04

Dollar fills in the dots. Forecast as of 04.11.2021Dmitri Demidenko

At first glance, the Fed hasn’t told the market anything new, announcing
the tapering of the QE. Slight changes in the language of the central
bankers have clarified a lot. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make
up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

While the ECB shrugs off market signals, the Fed is encouraging them. At
a press conference following the November FOMC meeting, Jerome Powell
has said it is not the time to raise rates, and the Fed can afford to be
patient, as the labour market has not yet fully recovered. At the same
time, the Fed chair suggested that the US will achieve full employment
by mid-2022. It could be interpreted as a confirmation of [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s’
expectations for the first federal funds rate hike in June 2022.

The US central bank, as expected, has announced it is to start tapering
the $120-billion quantitative easing programme in November. The Fed
intends to reduce the volume of Treasury bond purchases by $10 billion a
month, the mortgage bond purchases – by $5 billion in December. Next,
the pace of stimulus tapering can be adjusted if justified by changes in
the economic outlook. Jerome Powell noted that the Fed is ready to speed
up or slow down if necessary.

Remarkably, the wording that the high inflation reflects temporary
factors was replaced by the phrase “factors that are expected to be
transitory.” The central bank has secured a path to retreat from its
neutral position on interest rates. If inflation continues to stay at
elevated levels for longer than anticipated, the rates could be raised.

The Fed expects a slowdown in price growth in the spring or summer of
next year. If it does not happen by that time and the labor market fully
recovers, the door for aggressive monetary restrictions will be open.
Currently, the derivatives market bets on a 75% chance of two rate hikes
in 2022 and about 40% of three hikes.

### Dynamics of expectations for the Fed’s interest rate changes



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Unlike the Fed, the ECB insists that the markets are wrong. Christine
Lagarde said the Governing Council has clearly articulated three
conditions for the rate hike, and they will not be met in 2022. The
European central bank continues to go against the market expectations,
which could end badly for it. There are examples among other central
banks. The Reserve Bank of Australia had to abandon the yield curve
control due to the inability to keep it at the required level.

I believe the [EURUSD][1] rise after the announcement of the FOMC
meeting’s outcomes resulted from market participants exiting shorts, as
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s felt that the central bank had not told them anything new. In
fact, Jerome Powell has made it clear when exactly the Fed intends to
raise rates and that it will tolerate high inflation and support the
labour market recovery. Furthermore, the announcement that the pace of
the QE tapering can be adjusted in 2022 has come as a hawkish surprise.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

In the current situation, the significance of the US jobs report has
increased. Bloomberg experts expect to see an increase in non-farm
payrolls by 450,000 in October. However, given the improvement in the
epidemiological situation, the actual data can be stronger, supporting
the US dollar buyers. If the price breaks out the support zone of
1.157-1.1575, one could enter [EURUSD][1] shorts.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD