+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-29"
description = "British pound price forecast for September 29 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "British pound price forecast for September 29 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-29

2020-09-29

Pound escaped from the scaffold. Forecast as of 29.09.2020Dmitri
Demidenko

It seemed that Boris Johnson should have crashed the sterling by the
domestic market bill. But it was only a part of the plan. Let us discuss
the pound prospects and make a [GBPUSD][1] trading plan.

## Fundamental Pound forecast for this week

How to make a nation happy? Ruin the hopes for the bright future and
bring them back. The UK domestic market bill, which allows canceling
some paragraphs of the EU-UK deal signed last year, could have ruined
the last hopes for a Brexit deal. The UK has created problems itself and
was going to face new tariffs after December 31, which would hit the UK
economy, already weak. Fortunately, the chance to sign the EU-UK trade
deal has increased, and the pound is strengthening.

All or nothing. The final round of the EU-UK talks should clarify the
situation, also for the sterling future trend. The progress suggests
moving into the next stage of the “tunnel” negotiations to allow both
sides to discuss detail and present the draft deal at the EU summit in
mid-October. Otherwise, if the negotiations fail, the chance of a no-
deal Brexit will surge. The pound traders are preparing for the market
turmoil, as the GBP will be somewhat responsive to any [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) about Brexit
talks. The EU’s chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, told there was “a more
open atmosphere at the negotiating table.” Moreover, Bloomberg’s source
familiar with the matter suggests that the EU will demand the withdrawal
of specific provisions on the UK internal market bill in exchange for
concessions. The [GBPUSD][1] bulls went ahead and sent the rate above
the top of figure 29 for a while.

###  **Reaction of pound to positive information about Brexit**



 _Source_ _: Reuters._

If the Brexit deal is signed, Boris Jonson’s game will be useful. The UK
often exaggerates the crisis scale to fuel the positive [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) after the
problem is solved. If so, the BoE will have no reasons to cut the
interest rates below zero. Expectations for the BoE rate cut were one of
the drivers for the sterling’s drop in September. Some BoE officials,
including Andrew Bailey and the deputy Governor Dave Ramsden, say there
is no need for negative rates. Their opponents, including Silvana
Tenreyro, note that in other countries, the banking system has adapted
to similar monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/).

We shouldn’t deceive ourselves about the positive influence of the UK
fiscal stimulus on the pound rate. According to Goldman Sachs, the new
financial aid package won’t save the UK labor market form either the
loss of another 2.2 million jobs or the unemployment growth to 9%, which
is two times more than the current level.

###  **[GBPUSD][1] trading plan for the week**

Brexit and nothing else will determine the sterling trends for the near
future. The progress in the Brexit talks encourages the [GBPUSD][1]
bulls. Pound volatility should be very high during the week through
October 2. If the UK-EU talks succeed, the price could hit 1.33. If the
pound buyers break out the resistance at $1.2925-$1.293, it may be a
signal to buy the [GBPUSD][1]. There must be a stop loss, as the lack of
progress could send the pair towards 1.2.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][2]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][3] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-escaped-from-the-scaffold-forecast-as-of-29092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   3. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-escaped-from-the-scaffold-forecast-as-of-29092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus