+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-29"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (29 September 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (29 September 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-29

2020-09-29

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 29.09.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

Gold price is being corrected up in the medium-term downtrend. The
correction target is likely to test the zone of 1922.4 — 1902.9.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil is trading in the medium-term uptrend. Some time ago, the price
tested the trend key support [37.34 – 36.72]. Next, the buyers reacted
to the zone test. The oil price has stopped rising in the resistance
zone Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92].

I recommend aggressive traders to hold up purchases entered at the 59%
correction level (see the screenshot). Or one could stay away from the
market and expect the breakout of the resistance level TZ5.

The short-term oil trend is up. The price is rising form the trend key
support [38.72 – 38.45]. In the previous articles, I suggested expecting
a pattern to open buy positions. Nothing has changed, we continue
expecting a corresponding pattern. It will form if level 40.51 is broken
out.

An alternative scenario to sell oil. The price breaks out the trend key
support and consolidates below. If so, we shall enter sell trades with a
target at the lower Target Zone [35.97 — 35.42].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [38.72 - 38.45].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [42.85 - 42.23]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold price is being corrected up in the medium-term downtrend. The
likely correction target is to test the zone of 1922.4 - 1902.9. I
suggest looking for sell signals after the zone is tested.

The short-term gold trend is down. There is developing a deep
correction.

Yesterday, the price broke out Additional Zone [1874.5 - 1872.2]. It
means that price is likely to test Intermediary Zone [1900.1 – 1895.4].
So, we could buy gold in the correction.

IZ is the trend key resistance. When the price reaches the zone, we
shall exit all purchases and look for sell signals. We need a pattern to
enter sell trades.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in the zone of [1874.5 - 1861.6]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1900.1 - 1895.4]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1900.1 - 1895.4]. TakeProfit: Gold Zone [1852.9 - 1848.2]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD medium-term downtrend continues. The strong support is Target
Zone 2 [1.1611 - 1.1591]. If the zone is broken out, the next downside
target will be Target Zone 3 [1.1411 - 1.1391].

There is now developing a correction. The likely correction target is
the test of the trend key resistance.

The price is being corrected up in the short-term downtrend. Traders are
now breaking through the strong resistance Additional Zone [1.1667 -
1.1662], which they failed to break out yesterday. The price can be
rising to Intermediary Zone [1.1722 – 1.1712], the trend border, and the
last resistance created by the sellers.

After the IZ test, I suggest looking for a sell pattern and enter sell
trades with the target at the low of September 25.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1722 - 1.1712].
TakeProfit: 1.1613. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-29092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-29092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus