+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-28"
description = "Euro price forecast 28 April 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 28 April 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-28

2021-04-28

EURUSD is playing catch-up. Forecast as of 28.04.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Slow vaccination in the EU and problems with the ratification of the
European recovery fund put serious pressure on [EURUSD][1] in the first
quarter. However, the situation improves in the second quarter. In
addition to the Fed's passive attitude, this circumstance supports the
euro. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst. Is the market ready for
the Fed's optimism and Jerome Powell's hints at the monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)
normalization? I strongly doubt it. The central bank convinced [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s
in its willingness to put up with high inflation and maintain monetary
stimulus. Therefore, the Treasury yield dropped to six-week lows. Now,
the US bond yields are rising again, encouraging the [EURUSD][1] bears.

Ahead of the FOMC April meeting results, the euro-dollar got stuck in a
narrow trading range of 1.2055-1.211. Investors are sure they know what
Jerome Powell will say, but what if something goes wrong? One wrong
phrase can result in turmoil in financial markets. The Fed chairman must
admit that economic growth is accelerating, but the unemployment rate is
still too high. Powell has to say that this is a rebound, but not a
recovery yet. The US economy has still not recovered from the pandemic.

There are hardly any chances that the Fed Chair will talk about QE
tapering in April. First, the Fed doesn’t want to repeat the taper
tantrum of 2013 when Ben Bernanke announced the reduction in the volume
of asset purchases and provoked a real panic in the financial markets.
Second, the Fed is traditionally less aggressive than the CME
derivatives or Bloomberg experts. Most of the latter expect the
$120-billion program to wind down in the fourth quarter.

### Economists’ forecasts for the [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of QE tapering

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Despite the improvement in the US economic situation, there are still
many problems, and the central bank can afford to be patient. However,
if inflation will be up to 3.5% in May-June amid high commodity prices,
the best GDP growth over the past four decades, and the enormous
deferred demand, the Fed will have to take active steps. After all,
according to the PIMCO, the US PMI will slow down in the third and
fourth quarters, which, along with resolving supply problems, will
return the CPI to 2.1% by the end of 2021. It seems that the best way
out for the Fed is to wait and see not to worsen the situation. Let the
Treasury yields grow along with the PMI!

### PMI Dynamics of Treasury yields and global PMI



 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

I do not think the Treasury yields rally will press down the [EURUSD][1]
bulls as much as in March. French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire warns
that the EU must remain in the race while China has resumed its growth
and the U.S. is booming. The EU governments have lost too much time in
the adoption of the European Recovery Plan. The euro area must catch up.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Playing catch-up now is not the same as in the first quarter when the
euro crashed amid the slow vaccination and the double-dip recession in
the euro area. Even if the [EURUSD][1], having broken the lower edge of
the short-term consolidation range of 1.2055-1.211, starts correcting
down, it will be relevant to buy the pair on the rebound up from the
supports at 1.2045, 1.2, and 1.1965.







## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true