+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-28"
description = "Pound price forecast 28 April 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 28 April 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-28

2021-04-28

Pound is into asking questions. Forecast as of 28.04.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

[GBPUSD][1] bulls are in no hurry to benefit from the UK macro
statistics data, understanding how the Fed meeting and the release of US
GDP data can change the financial markets' situation. Will the pound be
able to maintain its position after these two events? Let us discuss the
Forex outlook and make up a trading plan

## Weekly pound fundamental forecast

The British pound is into asking questions. What decisions will be made
on EU membership and Scottish independence? Will the Brexit issue be
resolved at the end of the negotiations? Will the Bank of England
introduce negative rates? Another question arose in April. The agreement
between the BoE and the Bank for International Settlements to provide
sterling liquidity during any future periods of market stress hints at
the risks of a GBP shortage in the global financial system. Despite the
Brexit situation, is the pound gaining strength again?

At the last auction for the placement of 30-year UK bonds worth £6
billion, demand exceeded supply by more than 11 times (bids for a total
of £69 billion were submitted), and the UK macro statistics delighted
many. Positive unemployment, inflation, PMI, and retail sales data
allowed experts from Consensus Economics, a company that averages
forecasts, to raise its 2021 GDP growth estimate from 4.2% in February
to 5.4%. This could be the best performance since 1989. Oxford Economics
expects 7.2% GDP growth, EY Item Club - 6.8%, and Goldman Sachs - 7.8%,
claiming that the UK economy will overtake the US one this year.

### Dynamics of UK GDP forecasts for 2021

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The pound, which is currently the third-best performer among the G10
currencies after the Norwegian krone and the Canadian dollar,
strengthened in the first quarter due to a reduce of probability of
negative rates' introduction by the BoE. Between April and June, the
number of pound purchases increased due to the belief in the UK
economy's boost. According to Oxford Economics, experts offer overly
pessimistic forecasts that are easy to exceed.

The economy's success is unlikely to be ignored by the Bank of England,
whose officials will face a difficult task at the meeting on May 6. If
BoE continues to buy assets at a weekly pace of £4.4 billion under the
QE, the program will lose its significance by the end of 2021. On the
other hand, following the Bank of Canada's path, which began to
normalize monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), will cause a sharp pound strengthening. Does
the UK labor market need it? Only one in six British residents is
unemployed. In comparison, the Canadian labor market has recovered by
90% after the recession.

In my opinion, talks about the QE tapering by the BoE can support the
[GBPUSD][1] bulls. However, they need to survive through the Fed meeting
and the release of US GDP data for the first quarter. Each of these two
events could lead to an increase in Treasury yields and a US dollar
strengthening.

### Weekly [GBPUSD][1] trading plan

In my opinion, Jerome Powell will be able to persuade financial markets
not to make impulsive decisions. The US economy's 6.5% growth between
January and March has already been priced in the dollar pairs. These
circumstances allow buying [GBPUSD][1] on a price decline to supports at
levels 1.3835 and 1.3795, or on a breakout of resistance at level
1.3925.







## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true