+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-14"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 14, 2020

April 14, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.04.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

Oil middle-term uptrend continues. The buy target in the trend is Target
Zone 2 [30.75 – 30.19].

The trend key support is in the zone of [23.29 - 22.73]. The price is
now testing this support. Continue to look for buy entries.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.04.2020][1]

Oil is trading in the local downtrend. The price is now testing the zone
of [23.29 – 22.73]. The zone hasn’t been broken out, it is a strong
support.

There are the following resistances upside: Additional Zone [23.77 -
23.60] and Intermediary Zone [25.61 – 25.28]. IZ is the trend border.
Until this zone is broken out, one can look for sell entries according
to the pattern with the target at the yesterday’s low.

It will be relevant to buy oil in the short-term trend after the local
trend reverses up. The trend will up when the US session closes the
price above level 25.61.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.04.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

Open middle-term buy positions in Target Zone [23.29 - 22.73].
TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [30.75 - 30.19]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

Gold price broke out Target Zone 4 [1697.2 – 1691.2] yesterday. The next
target in the uptrend is Target Zone 5 [1757.2 - 1751.2]. The key
support zone that contains the best prices to buy, according to the
methodology, moves to the zone of [1642.5 — 1634.1].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.04.2020][4]

Let us switch to the short-term chart. There is the short-term uptrend.
The price has broken out Gold Zone [1697.7 – 1693.5] in the trend. Now,
the buy target is Target Zone 2 [1743.6 – 1735.3].

I recommend entering new long trades in the strong support zones,
Additional Zone [1705.1 - 1703.0] and Intermediary Zone [1684.2 -
1680.0]. Today, I recommend expecting the price correction down to any
of these support zones and looking for a buy pattern. A part of profits
can be taken when the price breaks through the local high if the price
goes up.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.04.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1705.1 - 1703.0]. TakeProfit: 1725.8, Target Zone 2 [1743.6 - 1735.3]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules. 

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1684.2 - 1680.0]. TakeProfit: 1725.8, Target Zone 2 [1743.6 - 1735.3]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules. 

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EUR/USD corrective rise has stopped under the trend key resistance
[1.0957 - 1.0940]. Look for sell trades according to the pattern with
the target at the low of last week.

We shall buy the euro after the middle-term turns up. This will happen
when the price breaks out the resistance and consolidates above.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.04.2020][7]

The EUR/USD short-term trend is yet up. The price broke out Additional
Zone [1.0925 – 1.0920] yesterday. Today, the price can reach the trend
key support [1.0882 - 1.0873]. After the zone is tested, we shall look
for buy entries according to the methodology. The buy target will be the
local high.

Alternative scenario: sell the eurusd after the key support is broken
out downside. The target will the lower Target Zone [1.0796 - 1.0778].
Enter sell trades on the correction according to the pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.04.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.0882 - 1.0873].
TakeProfit: 1.0965. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.04.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_140420_1.png?w=30&s=4b0099279e3a31e0f165147bda55e90c
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_140420_2.png?w=30&s=c076d67a2b03f2de6f924bf63d17ab03
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_140420_1.png?w=30&s=9aebaa2c8b168d2ba3d12bda683a98be
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_140420_2.png?w=30&s=0f030c9fa67deba655c3db781549a016
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_140420_1.png?w=30&s=ab6a401c4030142d0dde29b91f7fcb5f
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_140420_2.png?w=30&s=e66fc7a919300396d562b22f7002550a
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-14042020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-14042020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/bull_and_bear-1.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=00c5a88272f12ba9e994d4892cb75e92