+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-14"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 14.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 14.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 14, 2020

April 14, 2020

Dollar entered plateauDmitri Demidenko

## The improved epidemiological environment is a more important driver
for the EUR/USD than poor economic data

How to avoid a false start? Donald Trump claims that the death rate of
the coronavirus is much lower because of the social distancing policies.
The US president says he has the full power to order the local
governments to weaken those policies. The White House is close to
finishing the plan on re-opening the US economy. The matter is that if
the quarantine is quitted too early, there may start a new pandemic.
According to Goldman Sachs, the good [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) is that the pandemic is close
to its peak on a global scale; the bad [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) is that an improvement in
the epidemiological situation is a direct result of the social
distancing policies, and the situation can quickly change if people
return to work.

The bank’s analysts say that the GDP of advanced economies will contract
by 35% in the second quarter, which is four times more than the previous
record drop in 2008. The projections of the Peterson Institute for
International Economics are also gloomy. The global economy will lose
3.4% in 2020, the US growth will be 8% down, the euro-area GDP will lose
12%. The recession in the euro-area looks deeper than in the US,
especially since France, Italy, and Spain intend to extend quarantine.
According to, Luis de Guindos, Vice-President of the ECB, the euro-area
GDP could increase a little in the third quarter, however, the economy
should fully recover only in 2021.

 **Projections of the Peterson Institute for International Economics for
global GDP**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 14.04.2020][1]

 _Source: Wall Street Journal_

From a fundamental point of view, the leading pace of the US GDP over
the euro-area is a bearish factor for the [EUR/USD][2]. Nonetheless, the
pair’s rates now depend on the reaction of the US stock indexes to a
change in the epidemiological environment and weak domestic data and
gloomy projections. With this regard, the US dollar was pressed down as
the S&P 500 futures increased following Trump’s announcement, China’s
exports were down less than it had been expected, and China approved
human testing for coronavirus vaccines.

While the US stock indexes continue the rally due to the Fed’s huge
monetary stimulus, the greenback will be falling. The stimulus packages
announced by the Fed are enormous, they can well solve the short-term
liquidity problems and manage the market stress. On the other hand, the
actions taken by the central bank can’t prevent defaults of corporations
and emerging markets or to quickly reopen the US economy.

Joint efforts of the Fed and the White House have somehow stabilized the
US stock market, however, the major driver for the stock’s rally is a
change in the epidemiological situation rather than cheap liquidity.
Moreover, if the actual data are not that horrible as the forecasts, the
S&P 500 is quite strong, the [EUR/USD][2] can well break out the
resistance at 1.0965 and move higher. Therefore, the IMF’s gauges of the
global GDP could become the drivers for the pair.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar entered plateau][5]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/forecast-gdp-14-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=31bdc83e6db67c3cc9a85cc31d9da8ed
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-entered-plateau&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-entered-plateau&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-14-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=c541a9cf23f66c2bb4bf9fa4f40ac844