+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-14"
description = "Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 10. The retracement rule 6."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 10. The retracement rule 6."
type = "post"
+++

April 14, 2020

April 14, 2020

NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”Mikhail Hypov

## NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Retracement rule 6, conditions “b”,
“c’, and “d”.

Dear friends!

Today, I will continue covering retracement rule 6. You will learn
conditions “b”, “c”, and “d”, I covered the “a” condition in the
[previous article][1].

If you are not familiar with the NeoWave theory, I strongly reading all
the articles in the NeoWave series, based on Glenn Neely’s book
Mastering Elliott Wave, starting from the first one:

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][2].

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels. ][3]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][5]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][6]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][1].

### Rule 6

First, I’d like to remind you that rule 6 applies when m2 is moving in
the opposite direction to m1, and m2 is between 161.8% and 261.8%
(inclusive) of m1. After measuring the relation of m0 to m1, we pick up
one or several of the conditions and mark the waves with the
corresponding structure labels.

### Condition (b). If m0 is at least 100% but less than 161.8% of m1:

### If m3 is a polywave composed of more then three monowaves:

1. If the first three monowaves of m3 do not retrace more than 61.8% of
m2, the first or the second monowave (immediately after the end of m2)
may conclude a complex correction. Besides the first wave of the
correction should be moving in the opposite direction of m2, and it may
be the x-wave. In an alternative scenario, m2 contains a missing x-wave
in its center, or m2 could be the third wave of 5th failure impulse
pattern (trending or terminal). So, add “(:5/:s5)” to the structure list
of m1.

Considering the scenario when the x-wave is missing, circle the center
of m2 and place ":5?" to the left of the circle and ":F3/x:c3?" to the
right of the circle.

In the scenario suggesting the end of the Complex Correction will be
confirmed immediately before the point when the market violently turns
(in the opposite direction of m1) and m3 exceeds 61.8% of m2.

2. If the first three monowaves of m3 retrace more than 61.8% of m2, m2
may complete the a-wave of a flat with the complex b-wave, or m1 may
complete the third wave of a 5th failure impulse pattern. Under these
conditions, place ":F3/:5" at the end of m1 to show these two
possibilities.

### If m3 is a polywave that is composed of no more than three monowaves
(or monowave groups) or m3 is a monowave, then:

1. If m1 is less than or equal to m0 in time, ****or m1 ****is less than
or equal tom2 in time, and (-2) is shorter than m(-1), m1 may be the
x-wave of a complex correction; place "x:c3" at the end of m1.

2. If m1 takes the same amount of time (or more) as m0, or m1 takes the
same amount of time (or more) as m2, and ****m0 is close to 161.8% of
m1, m1 may be a part of a zigzag or impulse pattern. In this case, place
":F3" at the end of m1.

3. If m1 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced by m2 in the same
amount of time (or less) that m1 took to form, and ****m3 is less than
61.8% of m2 or more than 100% of m2, and m3 forms in a period of time
equal to (or less) than that taken by m2, and ****m(-1) is at least
61.8% of m1 in price and time, and ****if m1 is a compacted pattern,
provided that no part of m1 moved beyond the beginning of m1 during m1
's formation, then there is a chance m1 completes the c-wave of a flat.
So, place ":L5" at the end of m1 to show this possibility.

4. If m1 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced by m2 in the same
amount of time m1 took to form (or less), and m2 is retraced less than
61.8% and m(-1) is at least 61.8% of m0 in price and time, there is a
chance m1 may complete a contracting triangle or one of several flat
variations (depending on the length of m(-l)]). To show these two
possibilities place ":L3/:L5" at the end of m1.

However, if m1 is a polywave, and a part of m1 exceeds m1’s beginning,
remove “:L5” from the structure list.

5. If m1 is completely retraced slower than it took to form, and m2 is
composed of three or more monowaves, and ****m2 is longer than both
m(-1) and m0, then m1l may be one of the middle segments of a triangle.
So, place ":c3" at the end of m1.

6\. If m2 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount
of time (or less) that it took to form, and ****m0, when compared to
m(-2) and/or m2, and is not the shortest of the three, and ****the price
approaches (or exceeds) the beginning of m(-2) in a period of time 50%
(or less) of that taken by the group of waves m(-2) through m2, m2 may
conclude a terminal pattern. If so, add ":sL3" to m1’s structure list.

7\. If m3 is between 101%-161.8% of m2, an Expanding Triangle may be
forming. In this scenario, if there is an ":F3" in m1 ’s Structure list,
add brackets around it to indicate that “:F3” is less likely than ":c3".

### Let us see how rule 6 (b) works on the example.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 10. The
retracement rule 6.][10]

Let us check if the current market situation meets the requirements of
the (b) condition of rule 6. It is clear from the above chart that m3 is
a little less than 261.8% of m1. So, the requirements of the sixth rule
are met.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 10. The
retracement rule 6.][11]

Let us pick up the criteria of the (b) condition corresponding to our
wave formation. It is clear from the above chart that m0 is between 100%
and 161.8% of m1, and m3 is a polywave, but it is composed of only two
monowaves (it is clear from the chart below). So, in our case, the
second criterion of rule 6 (b) is relevant.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 10. The
retracement rule 6.][12]

Now, we need to select the relevant paragraph. It is clear from the
chart that m1 is equal (or more) to m0 in time. Therefore, as we have
found out in the previous chart that m0 is close to 1.618 of m1, we
state that m1 may be a part of an impulse or a zigzag, we place “:F3” at
the end of m1.

Now, let us study condition (c) and its criteria

### Condition (c). If m0 is between 161.8% and 261.8% (inclusive) of m1,
then:

1. m1 may be the final segment of a contracting triangle or a severe
c-failure flat, add “:L3/(:L5)” to m1’s structure list to show these two
possibilities (“:L5” is in round brackets to indicate a lower
possibility), provided the two below criteria are met:

  * If m1 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount of time (or less) that it took to form, and m3 is less than 61.8% of m2.

  * If m2 exceeds the length of m0, and m(-1) is between 61.8%-161.8% ****of m0, and m2’s price coverage is larger and its movement more vertical than that of m0.

2. If m2 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount
of time (or less) that it took to form, and ****m(-1) and m1 share some
of the same price range, and ****m0, when compared to m(-2) and m2, is
not the shortest of the three, and ****the price approaches (or exceeds)
the beginning of m(-2) in a period of time 50% (or less) of that taken
by the group of waves m(-2) through m2, then m2 may conclude a terminal
pattern. And so, add ":sL3" to the end of m1.

3. If m3 is between 101%-161.8% of m2, there might be forming an
expanding triangle. Add "(:c3)" to the structure list.

4. If none of the criteria 1,2, or 3 is met, place ":F3" at the end of
m1.

### Let us see how rule 6 (c) works on the example of the [BTCUSD][13]
price chart:

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 10. The
retracement rule 6.][14]

First, we check if the current market situation corresponds to rule 6.
It is clear from the chart that m2 is a little more than 161.8% of m1.
Therefore, the requirements of the sixth rule are met.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 10. The
retracement rule 6.][15]

The next step is to check if the (c) condition can be applied to this
situation. It is clear from the chart that m0 is between 161.8% and
261.8% of m1. So, the (c) condition of rule 6 is relevant here.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 10. The
retracement rule 6.][16]

As m0 is quite a long wave and can be compared with m2 and m3, and m2 is
longer than m3, so, none of the criteria 1,2 or 3 is met. So, we place
“:F3” at the end of m1.

### Condition (d). If m0 is more than 261.8% of m1.

1. If m0 or m2 (minus one time unit in both cases) is is less than or
equal to m1, and ****as long as m1 is simultaneously less in time than
both m0 and m2, m1 is either the first phase of a larger correction or
the completion of a correction within a zigzag or impulse pattern. In
this case, place ":F3" at the end of m1.

2. If m3 is less than 61.8% of m2, and the combined time of m2 through
m4 is equal to or less than that consumed by m0, and the combined price
coverage of the group of waves m2-m4 is larger and their movement is
more vertical than that of m0, there is a small chance that m1 completes
a contracting triangle or a severe c-failure flat. Therefore, place
"(:L3)/[:L5]" at the end of m1 to show these two possibilities.

3. If m2 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount
of time (or less) that it took to form, and ****m(-1) and m1 share some
of the same price range, and ****m0, when compared to m(-2) and m2, is
not the shortest of the three, and ****the price approaches (or exceeds)
the beginning of m(-2) in a period of time 50% (or less) of that taken
by the group of waves m(-2) through m2, then m2 may conclude a terminal
pattern. And so, add ":sL3" to the end of m1.

### Let us see how rule 6 (d) works on the example:

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 10. The
retracement rule 6.][17]

Let us check if the current market situation corresponds to the
requirements of the (d) condition of rule 6. It is clear from the chart
that m2 is a little more than 161.8% of m1. So, the requirements of the
sixth rule are fulfilled.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 10. The
retracement rule 6.][18]

The next step is to select the relevant condition of rule 6. It is clear
from the chart that m0 is more than 261.8% of m1. So, the (d) condition
of the sixth rule is relevant here.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 10. The
retracement rule 6.][19]

As m0 or m2 (minus one time unit in both cases) is is less than or equal
to m1 (blue areas in the chart are each shorter than the green one), and
****as long as m1 is simultaneously less in time than both m0 and m2
(the green area is shorter than the combined coverage of blue areas), m1
is either the first phase of a larger correction or the final leg of a
correction within a zigzag or impulse pattern. So, we place “:F3” at the
end of m1.

That is all for today. The next article will cover the retracement rule
7.

* * *

Take care of yourself and your money!

Subscribe and be the first to read the most up-to-date materials!

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][20]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][21] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][22]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b/
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.12/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=8a03ec0606f9a217836160b77342c819
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.12/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=e50ffea7a7327a5f4592339a6f21cb8f
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.12/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=1592a25f401f17a22a12c195eb6c8240
   13. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.12/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=eb4a75aeeba1030d2728319af238eb9a
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.12/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=59d861acb1f5dff6c4a0e5f677beddad
   16. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.12/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=ec85738b6f42a448dbf6390bdddc3aca
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.12/BTCUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=ff3c1e56393a840061b4c82e07bdc585
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.12/BTCUSD_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=3be97ab19cdae0082fd7d17845ce7784
   19. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.12/BTCUSD_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=4d89bcda949bd72a4960a9a2e92e31bb
   20. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-10-retracement-rule-6-conditions-b-c-and-d&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   21. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-10-retracement-rule-6-conditions-b-c-and-d&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   22. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.12/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=a76814700e48e51ac3e868a6a57be7e1