+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-14"
description = "USD/JPY forecast for 14.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "USD/JPY forecast for 14.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 14, 2020

April 14, 2020

Yen was spurredDmitri Demidenko

## The pandemic forced the Bank of Japan to surprise financial markets

In 2018-2019, one of the benefits of the Japanese yen, which was strong
and regularly entered the list of Forex leaders, was a low chance of BoJ
monetary easing. It seemed impossible that the central bank could do
more, it just couldn’t provide a huger stimulus than already was. A
deeper cut of the overnight interest rate into the negative area could
yield more negative side-effects than positive, and the yield-curve
control [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) reduced would reduce the need to expand the monetary base
by ¥80 trillion per year. In fact, the BoJ increased it by ¥16 in 2019.
But the coronavirus outbreak proved that the regulator has far more
capacities than it could be imagined.

 **Dynamics of BoJ asset purchases**

![LiteForex: USD/JPY forecast for 14.04.2020][1]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The pandemic, global recession and the associated TOPIX crash by 33%
from the December high spurred Haruhiko Kuroda and his colleagues to act
aggressively. In the first quarter, the central bank added ¥30 trillion
($278 billion) of bonds, stocks and other assets to its balance sheet;
it pumped ¥35 trillion of liquidity into the financial system via
operations such as repo agreements and dollar loans. The central bank
increased its debt in swap lines by $192 billion. It doubled its
purchases of [ETF](https://www.fixpro.org/post/etf-liquidity/)s, and the BoJ’s share of Japan’s sovereign debt is 47%.

In addition to a huge fiscal stimulus of ¥108.2trillion ($992 billion or
20% of Japan’s GDP) provided by Shinzo Abe’s government, the BoJ
monetary expansion seems to be effective. TOPIX is 14% up, and the stock
market volatility is down from its highs recorded in March.

 **Dynamics of Japan's stock market volatility**

![LiteForex: USD/JPY forecast for 14.04.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

According to Bloomberg analysts, the coronavirus strongly hit Japan’s
economy. The median gauge suggests the Japanese GDP should shrink by 4%
in the first quarter, and by 11.3% in the second quarter. Goldman Sash
expects the total output to drop by 25% YoY in the April-June period,
the exports should fall by 60% in the same period. The BoJ was going to
revise its projections at the meeting on April 27-28, but it is likely
to follow the Fed’s example and skip the adjustments. The uncertainty is
too strong!

 **Dynamics of Japan’s GDP**

![LiteForex: USD/JPY forecast for 14.04.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

I don’t think the uncertainty should relieve soon, so the volatility
will stay high, as well as the strong demand for funding currencies. The
[USD/JPY][4] bears have been successful in April amid the rise of global
stock indexes and the drop of the US dollar, which is now thought to be
the major safe-haven asset instead of the yen.

In my opinion, the epidemiological situation won’t quickly improve, and
the US economy won’t sharply rebound either. In this case, in addition
to US poor domestic data, the S&P 500 bulls will be discouraged, so the
stock index should be consolidating. The [USD/JPY][4] should also be
trading in the range of 106-110. If the pair goes down to the lower
border of the trading range, it will be relevant to open long positions.
Otherwise, if the rate goes up to the resistance at 110, it will be
relevant to sell.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USDJPY in real time mode

![Yen was spurred][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/boj-bonds-holding-14-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=da2601669d98073bc436bf9844d9202a
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/nikkei-volatility-14-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=47a8bcba4f40cfdaf44cb79dd3b9304c
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/japan-gdp-14-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=6b8daf264e005ef3f1bd41f9b0e408f7
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDJPY&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=yen-was-spurred&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=yen-was-spurred&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-usdjpy-14-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=b21ccaf17db456312a711fcaca13143f