+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-14"
description = "Vietnamese dong to USD."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Vietnamese dong to USD."
type = "post"
+++

April 14, 2020

April 14, 2020

Vietnamese dong. How will global crisis and pandemic affect Vietnam’s
national currency?Mikhail Hypov

##  **Vietnamese dong: Fundamental analysis, technical analysis,
COVID-19, economic analysis, trend analysis, actual scenario.**

The economic crisis and pandemic are growing stronger. I analysed the
Malaysian ringgit and made a forecast for it in my previous article,
which you can [check][1] here. In this article, we are going to do two
things: have a look at another Asian country - Vietnam, - and make a
forecast for its national currency.

###  **Spread of COVID-19 in Vietnam**

### First, let’s check the epidemiological situation in Vietnam.

![LiteForex: Fundamental and technical analysis: Vietnamese dong to
USD.][2]

Judging by the chart above, the epidemiological situation here is
favourable. These are outstanding numbers for a country with a
population of 100 million people. Still, the real situation may be
different because the population density in Vietnam is high and mass
testing hasn’t been done so far.

Preventive measures were introduced fast. Chinese tourists were banned
from entering Vietnam as early as on 30th January, even before the WHO
announced a global pandemic. Other foreign tourists arriving from China
were put in 2-week quarantine.

Air services between Vietnam and China were suspended at the beginning
of February.

On 22nd March, Vietnam closed its borders for all foreign citizens,
except for diplomats.

On 25th March, they closed all public gathering places. Only food
stores, pharmacies and petrol stations are working. Movement around the
country is restricted. Public transport services are running to reduced
frequency timetables.

A 15-day period of self-isolation was introduced on 1st April and it
will be extended, most probably. People are allowed to go shopping only
for food and medicine. A two-meter distance must be observed outside.
Gatherings of more than 2 people are banned.

I need to mention that tough quarantine measures haven’t been
implemented. The government confined itself to local lockdowns. Also,
Vietnam has its own application to control movements, like in China or
South Korea. What makes it different is that people aren’t obliged to
use this application. No sanctions or fees apply to those who don’t want
to set the app and register their social activities and movements.

So we may conclude that safety measures are soft in Vietnam. That’s why
I don’t trust Vietnamese coronavirus statistics. What we should consider
too is that Vietnam remains a communist country which is in transition
to market economy, like China. Still, the country is authoritarian, with
the Communist Party of Vietnam ****controlling the state and media. So I
may suppose that official data don’t reflect the real picture, which may
be more serious in fact.

Also, the public health system of Vietnam is poor: hospitals can provide
only 2 beds per 1 thousand patients.

Governments are facing a tough choice between economic sacrifice and
human victims. The former will be a consequence of tough quarantine
measures and the latter - of soft quarantine measures. The government of
Vietnam is searching for a balance. It understands that the poor public
health system won’t survive an inrush of patients even if though
quarantine is introduced.

###  **Stimulation measures**

### The package of relief measures for population and businesses is
worth 10 billion USD, or 4% of GDP. It includes:

  * $2.73 billion for direct financial support of the epidemic’s victims.
  * $6.36 billion in tax deferrals or removals.

Also, the government subsidized prices for medical masks and sanitizers,
cutting them twice. Another unusual measure is subsidizing electricity
prices. The government plans to cut the price by 10% for both businesses
and citizens. It is supposed to support households and economy in
general.

###  **Vietnamese economy in a time of global crisis**

The economy of Vietnam is export-oriented and depends on the external
market state. The GDP was 261.6 billion USD last year. It’s the 47th
place on a global scale. The country has been purely agrarian until
lately, but the share of farm business has already reduced to 20%.
Vietnam is the world’s biggest producer of cashew and black pepper, and
the world’s second producer and exporter of rice and coffee. It also
exports rubber, tee and fish products.

Production and sales of energy resources account for 10% of GDP. The
country is the third biggest producer and exporter of oil from South
Eastern Asia. Other exported resources are coal, bauxites, iron ore,
gold, tin, zinc and phosphates.

The technological sector is the fastest-growing industry in Vietnam. A
cheap workforce and high competence of staff makes it a good place for
cars assembly and microelectronic packaging. That’s why assembly plants
of China, Korea, or Japan are based here.

The USA and China are the main importers and trade partners. Despite a
political regime similar to China, Vietnam has been seeking to
consolidate its trade, economic and political relations with the USA.

As a result, it suffered from the US-Chinese trade war.

![LiteForex: Fundamental and technical analysis: Vietnamese dong to
USD.][3]

The Vietnam Stock index VNI has been dropping from January 2018, the
start of the trade war between the USA and China. But even that problem
wasn’t as damaging as the pandemic. The chart above shows that the fall
in March alone is similar to the fall over the whole year 2019.

This picture shows how serious Vietnam’s economic trouble is. The
export-oriented and resource-based economy of the country is sensitive
to the global crisis.

There are four factors that are damaging the Vietnamese economy the
most:

 closure of borders, travel restrictions and bans, fall of commodity
prices and decrease in consumer activities. As a result, the economy is
surviving only through increasing external debt and the strategic
partners’ support.

###  **Dong, the national currency of Vietnam**

### ![LiteForex: Fundamental and technical analysis: Vietnamese dong to
USD.][4]

The Central bank of Vietnam has a big influence on the currency rate,
like in other socialist countries. The chart above shows that the
structure of the dong’s dynamics isn’t a market one. The general USD/VND
trend is ascending, which points to systematic devaluation of the dong.
A large ascending channel is shown in the chart above. Judging by the
macroeconomic situation, I don’t think this trend will reverse. Since
the dong’s rate is regulated, making a forecast based on technical
analysis is difficult. Still, we can outline the limits of a future
movement. The devaluation of the national currency explains why the
Vietnamese workforce and products are competitive in the market.

The global economic crisis, the US-China trade was, and COVID-19 won’t
allow the regulator to maintain the rate at the current level for a long
time.  This situation will cause further devaluation.

![LiteForex: Fundamental and technical analysis: Vietnamese dong to
USD.][5]

Multiple deep downward shadows marked in red in the weekly chart above
show that the Central Bank of Vietnam is attempting to strengthen the
dong by fixing the rate in a trading range for some time. ![LiteForex:
Fundamental and technical analysis: Vietnamese dong to USD.][6]

One trading range is 1.5 years. However, the macroeconomic challenge may
make the Central Bank speed up devaluation. The dong rate has already
broken out the trading channel and the regulator seems to be trying to
hold the fall back. If the Central Bank continues its [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), the
USD/VND rate may have reached the level of 1 to 24,800 – 25,000 by the
end of 2021, considering the limits of the global trend channel marked
in purple.

 I’d like to remind you that all materials are provided for educational
purposes only. They aren’t financial advice and don’t guarantee any
profits. All trading decisions you make are your responsibility only.

* * *

Take care of yourself and your money!

Subscribe and keep in touch!

Yours,

Michael @Hypov



* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][7]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][8] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

![Vietnamese dong. How will global crisis and pandemic affect Vietnam’s
national currency?][9]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/malaysian-ringgit-how-will-the-crisis-affect-the-national-currency-of-malaysia/
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.14/COVID_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=9b914e6432c58b9d9934af61f9bc2d44
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.14/VNI_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=b739aadc735f6cc7171d1d851f3fad1d
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.14/USDVND_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=76603161c7d4e9c36b5c3773b7740bbb
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.14/USDVND_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=ca77d205d7ba3a76494f033c0ac2d980
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.14/USDVND_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=edfda40f780cf6c699b2a313be978c39
   7. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=vietnamese-dong-how-will-global-crisis-and-pandemic-affect-vietnams-national-currency&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=vietnamese-dong-how-will-global-crisis-and-pandemic-affect-vietnams-national-currency&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.14/USDVND_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=68621d7e60af047d22bd57e3ff977fed