+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-13"
description = "Euro price forecast 13 January 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 13 January 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-13

2021-01-13

EURUSD: who blinks first? Forecast as of 13.01.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The drop in the Treasury yields proved the weakness of the [EURUSD][1]
bears. Some of them went nervous and changed the sentiment. Was that
shift sensible? Let us discuss the market outlook and make up a trading
plan.

## Weekly Euro fundamental forecast

The dollar lost the growth driver and started falling. After completing
auctions for US Treasury bonds for $ 38 billion, Treasury yields went
down, and the [EURUSD][1] price went up above the bottom of figure 22.
As I expected, the rise of the US bond market rates, based on the
greater offer amid the fiscal stimulus expansion, has been temporary.
Everything goes back to the norm.

### Dynamics of USD and 10-year Treasury yield

 _Source_ _: Trading Economics_

Perhaps the most remarkable feature of the USD rally in January has been
the rejection of individual banks and investment companies' previous
bearish views. As I mentioned [earlier][2], Morgan Stanley and other
major players have not passed the strength test. Deutsche Bank has
announced it intends to exit greenback short trades as the fiscal
stimulus has accelerated the US economy and will ease pressure on the
Fed to keep the federal funds rate artificially low. JP Morgan noted
that one of the main drivers of the US dollar weakening was the
confidence that the Fed will long tolerate high inflation. Investors are
less confident now.

Therefore, not only the ordinary traders got nervous, but experienced
Forex analysts also did. So, do not be upset about the unsuccessful
sales of [EURUSD][1]. I believe the euro-dollar will reach the level of
1.25-1.27 in the first half of 2021, although its rally won’t be so fast
and easy as it was in November-December. The reasons for a potential
short-term consolidation are both in the euro-area economy's weakness
and the increased volatility of the US stock indexes.

The second wave of COVID-19 and the lockdowns in Europe encourage
experts to revise their predictions. Bloomberg suggests the euro-area
GDP should contract by 4.1% in the first quarter, although it was
earlier suggested that the indicator will grow by 1.3%. JP Morgan's
forecasts for the January-March period (current is -1%, previous is +2%)
and UBS (-0.4% and +2.4%) are less pessimistic, but all analysts expect
the recession to continues. This fact increases the pressure on the ECB
in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of the monetary stimulus expansion, which could weaken the euro
ahead of the Governing Council meeting on January 21.

### Bloomberg forecasts for euro-area GDP



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Furthermore, excessively overestimated fundamental assessments and
higher political risks due to a potential impeachment of Donald Trump
and a delay of additional fiscal stimulus by trillions of dollars could
start the consolidation of the [S&P 500][3]. Nonetheless, effective
vaccinations will support the euro-area economy in the second and third
quarters (up 4.8% and 3.1% according to Bloomberg estimates) and
increase global risk appetite, which will continue pressing down the US
dollar.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

By and large, the [EURUSD][1] medium-term outlook remains bullish.
However, the pair is likely to start a short-term consolidation in the
range of 1.208-1.238. I recommend holding up the long trades entered at
the level [of 1.2145][4].





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-follows-treasuries-forecast-of-12012021/
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-is-clutching-at-straws-forecast-as-of-08012021/