+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-13"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (13 January 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (13 January 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-13

2021-01-13

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 13.01.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

We are observing the reaction of traders to the test of the key support
of the euro medium-term uptrend [1.2165 - 1.2146].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil price is growing and approaching the Target Zone 4 [54.72 - 54.21].
The trend remains up, so purchasing on corrections is a priority. The
key support is shifting to the [49.39 - 48.94] zone.

Yesterday within a short-term uptrend, the local maximum was updated,
and the Gold Zone [52.39 - 52.16] was broken out. The next growth target
is Target Zone 3 [55.00 - 54.53].

Buy oil on corrections in the Additional Zone [52.79 - 52.68] and
Intermediary Zone [51.66 - 51.43]. Consider today's high of the day as
the first target.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [52.79 - 52.68]. TakeProfit: 53.91, Target Zone 3 [55.00 - 54.53]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [51.66 - 51.43]. TakeProfit: 53.91, Target Zone 3 [55.00 - 54.53]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

The medium-term gold uptrend continues, which means that you can
continue to buy from the zone [1859.2 - 1816.9]. We are waiting for the
pattern. The target is Target Zone 2 [2005.8 - 1994.3].

The short-term trend is still down. The price is now trading in
correction and is approaching the trend line [1872.1 - 1867.1]. Wait for
the test of the resistance level and observe the sellers' reaction. When
a sell pattern appears, it would be possible to open short positions
with a target at the low of January 11.

An alternative option is the breakout of the Intermediary Zone and
consolidation at a higher level at the US session. In this case, the
short-term gold trend will reverse up, and the upper Target Zone [1927.1
- 1917.1] will become the target.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Open medium-term buy positions according to the pattern [1859.2 -
1816.9]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [2005.8 - 1994.3]. StopLoss:
according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

We are observing the reaction of traders to the test of the key support
of the euro medium-term uptrend [1.2165 - 1.2146]. Wait for a buy
pattern. After that, open a trade with the target at January's high +
Target Zone 4 [1.2441 - 1.2420].

The short-term trend is down. The price is trading in the correction.
EURUSD is approaching the Intermediary Zone [1.2233 - 1.2224]. After
testing the resistance zone, look for sales according to the pattern
with the target at the January 11's low.

For euro purchasing, a breakout of the IZ and a consolidation above are
required. In this case, the target will be the upper Target Zone [1.2334
- 1.2316].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.2233 - 1.2224].
TakeProfit: 1.2134. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-13012021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-13012021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus