+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-16"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (16 December 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (16 December 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-16

2020-12-16

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 16.12.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

Oil broke through the high of last week yesterday

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Yesterday, the oil price broke through the high of last week. The
medium-term uptrend continues, the target is at Target Zone 3 [49.62 –
49.11]. Enter purchases at the trend line. If the price breaks out the
trendline downside, we shall sell oil.

The short-term timeframe shows that the main scenario to buy oil in
Additional Zone [46.65 – 46.53] has worked out. The price has broken
through the local high. The market hasn’t yet broken out Gold Zone
[47.64 – 47.41].

To enter new buy trades, expect the price correction down to Additional
Zone [46.68 – 46.57] and look for a pattern. The target will be at
yesterday’s high.

It will be relevant to sell oil only after the price breaks out AZ and
the trendline marked with the pink line in the chart.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [46.68 - 46.57].
TakeProfit: 47.85. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold is trading in a medium-term downtrend. The sell target is Target
Zone 3 [1736.4 - 1727.1]. The price is now retesting the zone of good
sell prices [1850 – 1890]. Expect a sell pattern to enter trades.

In the short-term timeframe, the gold price is trading down in the
short-term uptrend with a target at Target Zone [1890.8 - 1879.3].

Over the last two weeks, the gold price has several times tested the
zone of the trend key support. The zone hasn’t been broken out.

Yesterday, the gold price broke out the resistance zone [1845.9 –
1843.4] and the sloped resistance line. This is a buy signal.

Today, it is relevant to enter buy trades on the correction.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Buy in the zone of [1845.9 - 1830.8]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1890.8 -
1879.3]. StopLoss: 1826.0.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD is trading in the medium-term uptrend with the target at
Target Zone 3 [1.2232 – 1.2212]. Traders are now testing the technical
trendline. Look for a Price Action pattern to buy.

If the price breaks out the trendline, we could sell the euro in the
correction with a target at the lower Target Zone [1.1993 — 1.1975].

The EURUSD is trading in a short-term uptrend. The upside target is at
Target Zone 2 [1.2232 - 1.2209]. The price has now stopped in the local
resistance zone [1.2160 – 1.2151].

To enter a long trade, we need a Price Action pattern to buy at the
trend line. The pattern isn’t yet there, so the price could break out
the support level and go down to Intermediary Zone [1.2085 — 1.2076] in
the correction.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern at the trendline in the H4 chart.
TakeProfit: Target Zone 3 [1.2232 - 1.2212]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-16122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-16122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus