+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-27"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 27, 2020

May 27, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.05.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

Target Zone 4 [34.17 — 33.42] is the strong resistance of the oil
uptrend this week. As the price approached the zone, the volatility has
declined. There is now forming a consolidation range. When the price
breaks the consolidation range, it may further break out TZ 4 and reach
TZ 5 [41.67 – 40.92].

An alternative scenario suggests the price correction down to the zone
of the trend key support [24.47 — 23.57].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.05.2020][1]

The short-term trend is up. Yesterday, buyers reached Target Zone 4
[34.17 – 33.42]. The zone hasn’t been broken out, so the price will
hardly be rising right now. We shall monitor the market.

In case of the correction, we shall consider entry points in the support
zones, Additional Zone [31.22 - 31.00] and Intermediary Zone [28.97 –
28.52]. If either of these supports is reached by the price, it will be
relevant to enter new purchases according to the pattern. The upside
target is to break through the local high.

If the price breaks out AZ, there will be a deeper correction down to
IZ. This trading idea to sell can also yield a profit.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.05.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [31.22 - 31.00]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 4 [34.17 - 33.42]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [28.97 - 28.52]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 4 [34.17 - 33.42]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

According to the margin zones, gold is trading in the middle-term
uptrend. The price is now being corrected with a target is to test
Target Zone [1673.6 – 1664.4]. After the TZ test, I suggest entering buy
trades again.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.05.2020][4]

The short-term trend slowly turning down. The price is now trading a
little lower than Intermediary Zone [1719.3 – 1714.8] trying to
consolidate below the zone. If sellers succeed, the trend will finally
reverse down, and the price will go down to the lower Target Zone
[1673.6 – 1664.4].

For today, I suggest looking for sell trades in the new Additional Zone
[1730.2 - 1727.9], as the previous zone has worked out, the local low
has been broken through. Enter sell trades according to the pattern. As
the local low is updated, the zone should be rearranged following the
price.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.05.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:  **

Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1730.2 - 1727.9].
TakeProfit: 1705.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EURUSD is trading flat between levels 1.0985 and 1.0783. In the
medium-term timeframe chart, the price has tested the resistance level.
Therefore, I recommend entering sell trades down to the support zone.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.05.2020][7]

The EUR/USD short-term trend reversed up via the breakout of the
Intermediary Zone [1.0970 – 1.0961] yesterday. The trading idea to sell
didn’t work out. The main scenario suggesting the price drop into Target
Zone [1.0826 - 1.0808] also didn’t work out.

I already wrote that the euro is trading flat in the middle-term chart.
As it often happens in such cases, margin zones in the flat become less
important, and technical analysis becomes more relevant.

Based on technical analysis, the relevant scenario to trade under the
current conditions is to enter trades at the borders of the trading
channel in a longer timeframe. So, it is relevant to sell from the
resistance level to the support level.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.05.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

Sell at the current levels/hold down sell trades entered in the zone of
[1.1017 - 1.0985]. TakeProfit: 1.0783. StopLoss: 1.1012.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.05.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_270520_1.png?w=30&s=8bb01e326cc0c2fce882b512ae761da6
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_270520_2.png?w=30&s=2c7f9c00b932c6b56d755261afaf385a
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_270520_1.png?w=30&s=287451977db821ef69f6b92732b30e7a
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_270520_2.png?w=30&s=fe44aaaf2a1ed902a7e646734a6309e3
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_270520_1.png?w=30&s=eeca73d2c1ea8db2bf33bf962338564e
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_270520_2.png?w=30&s=28e5bb6f75b484c3732df36e693c3639
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-27052020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-27052020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/oil_144.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=988c90282e674de5518a3cc71f9e6ef8