+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-27"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 27.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 27.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=26.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 27, 2020

May 27, 2020

Euro discourages bearsDmitri Demidenko

## The euro doesn’t look that weak anymore

About twenty years ago, my schoolmate invited me to his office in the
center of the city, showed me his desktop with expensive technical
analysis software, and proudly said that it was relevant to sell as all
the indicators pointed down. That guy was a loser in trading and had to
earn his million in another business. When there are too many bears in
the markets, wise traders start looking for buy entries. The
[EUR/USD][1] rally in early may have proved this general truth.

The pandemic delivered another blow to the euro-area economy that had
been already weakened by the US-China trade war. According to the OECD
the GDP of 37 members of the organization decreased by 1.8% Q-o-Q in the
first quarter, which was the worst drop since the beginning of 2009.
Among G-7 countries, the weakest economies were France and Italy, the
strongest ones – Japan and the USA. The share of the euro-area economy
in the global GDP was decreasing since 1980, and, when the EU was hit by
COVID-19, there was a disaster.

 **Dynamics of GDP of France, USA, and OECD**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 27.05.2020][2]

 _Source: Wall Street Journal_

 **The structure and the changes in the global GDP and industrial
production**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 27.05.2020][3]

 _Source: Financial Times._

Everything is relative. The Fed, the White House, and the Congress
spared no expense to support the US economy. The dispute among the EU
governments and the ruling of German’s constitutional court to ban
further participation of the Bundesbank in QE if the ECB does not
explain why the benefits of the program outweigh its side effects
encouraged [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s to sell the [EUR/USD][1].

While the EU was failing to find a compromise, there were high
expectations that Christine Lagarde and her colleagues would stabilize
the euro-area bond market. According to the ECB forecasts, the public
debt in the euro area should increase from 86% to more than 100%, in
Greece – to 200%, in Italy – to 160%, in Portugal – to 130%, in France
and Spain – to 120% of GDP. If the ECB stops buying out bonds, the
capital escape will dramatically increase the risk of the euro-area
breakup. The Citi FX pain index for the euro has dropped to the lowest
level since late 2018, which signals that traders are bearish on the
euro.

 **Dynamics of Forex pain index**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 27.05.2020][4]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The euro was saved by the rally of the US stock indexes, as [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s
were encouraged by the soon reopening of the US economy. The S&P 500
still supports the [EUR/USD][1]. Traders are exiting the euro shorts
amid the French-German €500-billion project and the ECB willingness to
boost the QE pace, despite the ruling of the German court (it is likely
to be settled down by the Bundesbank and the German government). The
single European currency doesn’t look that weak as it used to do. If
there is not a new round of the US-China trade war, the Chinese, US, and
global economies quickly rebound, which will support the rally of the US
stock indexes, the [EUR/USD][1] should go up from the short-term
consolidation range 1.077-1.099 and start rising to the top of the
middle-term trading channel framed in the zone of 1.065-1.115.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Euro discourages bears][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/france-usa-oecd-27-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=d1dc1d74ab7368cbbbb6fe6dc70a843f
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/gdp-manufacturing-27-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=eb90e08ec8bbd860ffba887c4d6f63ba
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/citi-fx-euro-27-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=bac6274a1499841a1aa61401e2728f3a
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-discourages-bears&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-discourages-bears&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-27-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=c73de1067c716cf20b9b00d95a82b8fc