+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-24"
description = "G10 currencies price forecast 24 March 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "G10 currencies price forecast 24 March 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-24

2021-03-24

Forex: [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) catch fish in muddy waters? USDCAD, EURCAD, EURJPY,
EURCHF, GBPJPY and GBPCHF forecast for six m...Dmitri Demidenko

Several G10 currencies have already set trends for 2021, while others
are ready to break the current trend. What currencies are we talking
about? Let's discuss the market outlook and make up a trading plan for
[USDCAD][1], [EURCAD][2], [EURJPY][3], [EURCHF][4], [GBPJPY][5], and
[GBPCHF][6]

## Fundamental G10 currencies forecast for six months

As in life, there will always be a place for both optimists and
pessimists in the market. Pessimists say that it will not be possible to
defeat the pandemic with the current vaccination rate even in 2022.
Optimists draw attention to the fact that the OECD has raised its 2021
economic growth forecast by as much as 2.5% and sincerely believe that
the COVID-19 situation will improve in the summer. How can an ordinary
Forex trader make a profit with such a variety of opinions, which
resembles muddy waters?

First, you need to understand that both optimists' and pessimists'
favorite for today is the US dollar. To achieve global immunity, it is
necessary to vaccinate about 4.5 billion people (75% of the world's
population). So far, 450 million people have been inoculated, so the
chances of eradicating COVID-19 by the end of 2022 look slim. If so,
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s will buy greenbacks as a safe-haven currency anyway.

On the other hand, at the current rate of vaccination, the UK will cope
with the pandemic by mid-summer, the United States by the fall. China
has already done so. Large economies will recover much faster than
others, so the improvement in the OECD forecasts looks logical. The more
optimistic estimates are based on the boost of economic growth in the
United States thanks to large-scale fiscal stimulus. Indeed, the US
economy will be larger by the end of 2021 than expected before COVID-19.
This is a good reason for the greenback strengthening.

### Difference in GDP forecasts for 2021

 _Source: Financial Times._

### GDP forecasts for G10 countries

 _Source: Nordea Markets._

At the end of 2020, there were many hopes for a boost in the UK and the
Eurozone economies. However, the estimates had to be reduced due to the
feuds over vaccines and Brexit. In contrast, US GDP estimates have
risen. Improved forecasts for Australia and Canada are also noteworthy.
Their currencies are supported by the commodity market, as well as China
and the United States, which are their main trading partners.

In my opinion, the loonie will look better than the rest of the G10
currencies in 2021 and will be a real competitor to the greenback for
several reasons. First, despite the oil correction, AUD's medium-term
prospects remain bullish: the US economy's full opening and high demand
for gasoline in the summer will help recover the [Brent][7] and [WTI][8]
uptrend. Secondly, the Bank of Canada is the first of the regulators of
developed countries to normalize monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). Finally, Ottawa will
be one of the main beneficiaries of Joe Biden's fiscal stimulus.

### Impact of US fiscal stimulus on world economies

 __

_Source: Financial Times._

If the AUD and the USD look like Forex favorites, then I still consider
the Japanese yen and the Swiss franc to be outsiders due to the
increased sensitivity of these currencies to the growth of Treasury
yields. As for the euro and the pound, these currencies have already hit
a rough patch, but in a few months, the situation should change, which
will allow us to buy [EURJPY][3], [EURCHF][4], [GBPJPY][5], and
[GBPCHF][6] cheaper.





## Price chart of EURJPY in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCAD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURCAD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURJPY&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURCHF&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPJPY&returnUrl=true
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPCHF&returnUrl=true
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=UKBrent_n&returnUrl=true
   8. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USCrude_n&returnUrl=true