+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-24"
description = "US dollar price forecast 24 March 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 24 March 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=26.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-24

2021-03-24

Dollar has the key. Forecast as of 24.03.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The pandemic seems to have been over. But it still has a significant
impact on Forex. Europe is preparing for the third wave, and the euro-
area PMI will hardly recover soon. Where will the [EURUSD][1] go? Let us
discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

Everyone makes mistakes. Some get away with it, and others have to pay a
high price. Donald Trump didn’t recognize the pandemic in the beginning,
which caused 550,000 deaths in the US. As a result, Trump lost the
presidential election, and the US dollar significantly weakened. Slow
vaccination and EU mistakes in the vaccine roll-out sent the euro down
to the November lows. I am afraid the single European currency could
continue falling.

According to Penn Wharton research, if 25% of Americans refuse
vaccinations and the level of social activity rises to 70% of the pre-
pandemic, 4.6 million people in the US may be infected with the COVID-19
in 2021. In Europe, there can be much more new cases, as the vaccination
is progressing very slowly, and the alleged side effects from
AstraZeneca drugs seriously scared the population. The faster is the
roll-out of the vaccine, the higher is the economic growth rate, and the
stronger is the local currency. The [EURUSD][1] downtrend proves it.

In late March, 127.1 million people (38.7% of the population) received
at least one dose in the US; in the EU - only 59.2 million (13.2%). The
US GDP forecasts have naturally increased compared to late 2020. The
euro-area growth forecasts have been downgraded. And the leading growth
of the US economy compared to the G10 countries is the key to the dollar
strengthening.

### GDP forecasts



 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

### Dynamic of USD and expected growth of US GDP compared to other
countries

 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

Europe faces an increase in the number of infections, hospitalizations,
and deaths, preparing for the third wave of the pandemic and seriously
frightened by the story of AstraZeneca. France and Germany are extending
lockdowns, and the European Union is limiting the export of vaccines
produced on its territory. Is it possible in such conditions to count on
the PMI rebound?

The release of Markit's Purchasing Managers' Index was initially
presented as the highlight of the week ending March 26. According to
Bloomberg experts, the euro-area manufacturing PMI will decline from
57.9 to 57.7 in March. Services PMI will increase from 45.7 to 46 but
will remain below the critical mark of 50, which indicates a contraction
of the sector. By contrast, the US PMI can well increase amid rapid
vaccinations and massive fiscal stimulus. The growth gap between the US
and the euro area will widen, pressing the [EURUSD][1] down.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

My trading ideas to sell the pair [on the rise to 1.199][2] and add to
shorts if the price fails to break out the [red line at 1.193][3] have
been profitable. But it is the case when I am not happy with the correct
forecast. I am an optimist and used to believe that the pandemic will
end sooner. However, it doesn’t seem so. The downside targets at 1.18,
1.176, and 1.172, marked in the previous forecasts, are getting closer.
The PMI data will give a clue on the [EURUSD][1] future price movements.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/euro-if-being-fed-forecast-as-of-11032021/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/euro-is-sad-about-lost-summer-forecast-as-of-22032021/