+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-24"
description = "What are Pips in Forex: Complete Guide for Beginners"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "What are Pips in Forex: Complete Guide for Beginners"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-24

2021-03-24

What is a Pip in Forex trading? Definition and examplesArtem Shashkov

This article will focus on the minimum price change known as pip. You
will find out how much it is, why we measure price movements in them and
whether the pip is the same for all trading instruments. What can I say
– there are pips and then there are pips. :)

The article covers the following subjects:

## Pips Definition & Meaning

I will not torment the reader with a long introduction. A pip is a
general term for the minimum unit of price change. The term is mostly
popular among Forex traders because it’s inconvenient to calculate
miniscule fluctuations of currencies in dollars or euros. It's easier to
say that the price grew by 540 pips than 0.0054 euros, isn't it?

An important detail about the FX pip is that it depends on the accuracy
of the price measurement. Some brokers offer 4-digit quotes – here the
accuracy of price measurement is limited to ten thousandths. In this
case, the change of the fifth decimal point in the [EUR/USD][1] price -
for example, from 1.00000 to 1.00004 - will go unnoticed. A 1 pip price
change for a 4-digit Forex broker will equal a 10 pip price change for a
5-digit quote.

Let us consider the spread for the EUR/USD currency pair

The exchange rate is 1.21232 to 1.21233:

The spread, or the difference between the quotes, is EUR 0.00001 or 1
pip. As you have probably guessed, Liteforex provides 5-digit quotes.

Speaking about the minimum price move, let's analyze how the price of
this instrument (EUR/USD) has changed during 5 minutes on a minute
timeframe (M1).

The price is at the level of 1.21247.

After 10 minutes, the price increased slightly - to 1.21250.

The timeframe is small, that's why the growth is so small

It turns out that the price has grown by 3 pips from 1.21250 to 1.21247
or by EUR 0.00003.

The pip value of 0.00001 is also called "fractional pip" because it is
1/10 of the “standard” value with a 4-digit quote.

## Calculating Pip value

To do this, we need to know:

  * the cost of 1 lot of the traded instrument. On Forex, it is usually 100,000 units of the base currency (which is the first in the quote). For example, the cost of 1 lot of the EUR/USD = 100,000 euros. The cost of 1 lot of the GBP/JPY = 100,000 pounds, etc.

  *  The cost of the instrument. Let's take [EUR/USD][2] again. At a rate of 1.20000, buying 1 lot (100,000 euros) will cost 100,000 x 1.20 = 120,000 dollars.

If we sell 1 lot at a price 1 pip higher, i.e. by 1.20001, as a result
of such a trading operation we get 100,000 x 1.20001 = 120,001 US
dollar. Therefore, we can earn 1 dollar on a move of one pip, which is
the cost of one pip on this instrument.

Other instruments are calculated using the same method.

Let’s take the [USD/JPY][3] as an example of unconventional 3 decimal
digits in the exchange rate calculation.

Cost of 1 lot - USD 100,000

We’ll assume the rate of the instrument is 105.300

In the example with the dollar and the yen, the minimum price
fluctuation would be 0.001

When buying 1 lot of the USD/JPY, you need 100,000 * 105,300 =
10,530,000 Japanese yen.

If the rate rises by one pip to 105.301, then 1 lot (100,000 US dollars)
can be sold at 10,530,100 yen.

Therefore, the value of one pip here will be 10,530,100 - 10,530,000 =
100 yen.

## Finding Pip value in the trading account

Some of the values ​​for calculating pip value on the Forex market can
be found in the trading account. Let's open a chart of the EUR/USD
currency pair in the online terminal. To do this, select the
"currencies" tab and click on the EUR/USD pair.

The scale in the right corner of the chart shows the current price of
the instrument. It sits at a value of $1.20241.

We have a 5-digit quote, which means that the minimum price change for
this instrument will be $0.00001.

To calculate the value of one pip, you also need to know the volume of
the transaction, which is measured in lots. The selected volume value is
shown to the right of the chart:

As the volume of the transaction grows, the value of one pip for the
trader also increases. As we found out earlier, with a volume of 1 lot,
the cost of a pip is $1. This means that with a minimum volume of 0.01
lot, the cost of a pip will be equal to $ 0.01. In this case, the trader
will be able to earn $0.5 on the price movement of 50 pips.

If you increase the volume to 0.1, the cost of 1 pip will also increase
10 times - from $0.01 to $0.1. Then the same movement of 50 pips can
bring the trader $5.

It is crucial to understand that any trade always has two potential
outcomes. So before playing with volumes, it is recommended that the
trader should acquire basic knowledge of risk and money management.

## Major currencies pips

The major currency pairs are called the Majors. These include:

All these instruments have 5-digit quotes, except for the USD/JPY, which
has 3 decimal places.

The cost of 1 lot for each instrument is 100,000 units of the base
(first in the quote) currency:

EUR/USD

|

100,000 euro  
  
---|---  
  
USD/CHF

|

100,000 US dollars  
  
GBP/USD

|

100,000 pounds  
  
USD/JPY

|

100,000 US dollars  
  
AUD/USD

|

100,000 Australian dollars долларов  
  
USD/CAD

|

100,000 US dollars  
  
NZD/USD

|

100,000 New Zealand dollars  
  
Now let's add 1 pip value for each currency pair and calculate its value
for a standard volume of 1 lot.

EUR/USD

|

100,000 euro

|

0.00001 USD

|

1 USD  
  
---|---|---|---  
  
USD/CHF

|

100,000 US dollars

|

0.00001 CHF

|

1 CHF  
  
GBP/USD

|

100,000 pounds

|

0.00001 USD

|

1 USD  
  
USD/JPY

|

100,000 US dollars

|

0.001 JPY

|

100 JPY  
  
AUD/USD

|

100,000 Australian dollars долларов

|

0.00001 USD

|

0.5 USD  
  
USD/CAD

|

100,000 US dollars

|

0.00001 CAD

|

1 CAD  
  
NZD/USD

|

100,000 New Zealand dollars

|

0.00001 USD

|

1 USD  
  
Depending on the currency in which the trader keeps their trading
capital, these values ​​will be converted based on the current rate.

For the calculation you will need:

  1. The cost of 1 pip of the traded instrument. For example, a trader is trading the USD/CHF. Then the cost of 1 pip is measured in CHF and is 1 CHF.
  2. The exchange rate of the account currency to the currency in which we’re calculating the value of 1 point. In our case, we need the USD to CHF rate.

For a trader's account in USD, the cost of 1 point of the USD/CHF
currency pair at its rate of 0.90000 will be calculated as follows:

Point value for an account in USD = 1 CHF / 0.90000 = 1.11 USD

If a trader with an account in USD wants to trade the USD/JPY pair with
the rate 105,600, then the pip value for their account in USD will be as
follows:

Calculating the Forex pip value for an account in USD = 100 JPY /
105,600 = 0.95 USD

When you’ve mastered the basics of calculation, you can use the trader's
calculator to save time:

## Pips and price movement

Calculating the value of potential profit or loss is of practical
importance for the trader's analysis. Based on these values, the trader
can calculate the trade volume that fits their risk management rules and
trading capital.

For such calculations you will need:

  * calculate the value of a pip of a traded instrument in the account currency with a standard volume of 1 lot;

  * calculate the possible loss in the account currency: how much the trader will lose when the stop loss is triggered. This can be done using the formula:

 _Stop loss for standard volume (in account currency) = pip value in
account currency x Stop loss value in pips_

  * Calculate the trade volume based on the risk management rules.

Suppose a trader is trading the EUR/USD currency pair on a USD trading
account. They want to place a stop loss of 20 pips with $200 of trading
capital.

  1. The cost of a pip with a volume of 1 lot = 1 USD

  2. When setting a stop loss of 20 pips in the case of a 1 lot trade, the trader should risk:

 _Pip value * Stop loss value in pips = $20_

  3. Suppose a trader does not want to risk more than 3% of the deposit per trade. With a capital of $200, this will be $200 * 0.03 = $6

If the stop loss with a volume of 1 lot is $20, then the trader will
need to cut the trade volume:

$20 / $6 = 3.33.

Consequently, the trade volume with such risk management parameters
should be 3.33 times less than the standard volume of 1 lot.

Therefore, the maximum possible volume, taking into account all the
rules and parameters, will be equal to 1 / 3.33 = 0.3 lot

## What is a Pipette/Point?

What is 1 point or pipette and how are they different from a pip?

On exchange markets - stock, futures, etc. - points are the price values
​​before the decimal point.

For example, if the price of [AMZN][4] shares rose from 3284.7 to 3305.4
in a day, stock traders say that the price grew by 21 points.

Fractional price values ​​(after the decimal point) are not taken into
account:

3305 - 3284 = 21 pips.

If you trade contracts for difference (CFDs), whose prices are
calculated somewhat similarly to exchange instruments, then even on
Forex 1 point will have the same meaning for you.

A Forex point can indicate not only the minimum possible price movement,
but also a specific amount of price change equal to 0.00001. Some Forex
traders differentiate between the concepts of a pip and a point.

Since previously, most Forex brokers provided 2-digit (example -
USD/JPY) and 4-digit (example - EUR/USD) quotes, the minimum price
movements were 0.01 and 0.0001, respectively. This is what was referred
to as a pip.

Pay attention to the screenshot of a 4-digit quote from the Metatrader
terminal.

In time calculations of price changes became more nuanced with the help
of 3-digit (USD/JPY) and 5-digit (EUR/USD) quotes. So the minimum price
change for the USD/JPY became 0.001, and for the EUR/USD - 0.00001.

Therefore, for old school traders the value of 1 pip is still a price
change of 0.01 or 0.0001, and more accurate changes of 0.001 and 0.00001
were called a point or a beautiful word "pipette".

Therefore, if the rate of the currency pair increased from 1.20251 to
1.20274, then the growth was 2 pips or 23 points:

1.20274 - 1.20251 = 0.00023

So, using the example of some instrument measured in US dollars,

Exchange: $1 = 1 point

Forex market: a pip is equal to a point and is $0.00001 or $0.0001 with
a 4-digit quote.

## Cost of one point on Forex

If you are a stock trader, the value of a point for you will be
equivalent to the measurement unit of the value of the traded
instrument.

If the instrument is traded in US dollars, then 1 point will be
equivalent to $1. If it’s in euros, then 1 euro.

For Forex traders, 1 point is the same as 1 pip, so it will be
calculated in the same way.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

* * *

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/info?symbol=EURUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDJPY
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23AMZN
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=pips&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=pips&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus