+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-09-13"
description = "Gold price forecast 13 September 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Gold price forecast 13 September 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-09-13

2021-09-13

Gold will fall. Forecast as of 13.09.2021Dmitri Demidenko

When the Fed surprised the markets with insane monetary stimulus in
2020, gold hit an all-time high. However, the time has come to taper the
QE. How will the gold price react to this? Let us discuss the Forex
outlook and make up a gold trading plan.

## Fundamental gold forecast for a week

History repeats itself. When the Fed began to withdraw monetary stimulus
in 2013, the gold price collapsed. At that time, it took ten months to
taper QE. Currently, unemployment is at 5.2%, significantly lower than
eight years ago, and inflation is much hotter. The FOMC hawks are keen
to end the $120 billion QE program by mid-2022. If all goes according to
their plan, the [XAUUSD][1] bulls will have a hard time.

According to the President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, John
Williams, there is no need to follow a certain time frame or the
approach that was previously. Macroeconomic indicators are better than
in the past. According to 40% of the Financial Times experts, the Fed
will announce the QE tapering in November, 31% expect this in December.
Experts raised their forecasts for PCE from 3% to 3.7% by the end of
2021. Most of them expect that inflation will continue to exceed the
target of 2% at the end of 2022.

The long-term nature of inflation is the key to the future fate of gold.
If the PCE index continues to be at higher levels for longer than the
Fed expects, it will be forced to raise rates aggressively. Otherwise,
inflation risks reaching all-time high levels. In this situation, the US
dollar will strengthen, and the precious metal will weaken.

Along with the return of [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/) interest in the US dollar, the
[XAUUSD][1] bulls should worry about the growth of Treasury yields.
According to research by the Washington Bipartisan Policy Center, the
government is likely to run out of cash and may begin to pass payments
on its obligations sometime between mid-October and mid-November. As a
result, the risks of default will increase. Such an event has never
happened before, and it could have disastrous consequences for financial
markets. Let's hope Congress won't let this happen. The ceiling of the
national debt will be suspended, the issue of bonds will rise sharply,
which will lead to higher yields. Earnings were flat as over the past 90
days, the volume of Treasury issuance was lower than the Fed's QE
purchases.

### Dynamics of the ratio of Treasury issuance and their purchases by
the Fed



 _Source: Nordea Markets._

Gold buyers should also be afraid of the seasonal nature of COVID-19.
Last summer, the epidemiological situation in the United States
deteriorated significantly, while in Europe everything was more or less
normal. However, in the middle of autumn, the gap began to close. If
[history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) repeats itself in 2021, the slowdown in economic growth in the
eurozone will deprive the euro of its main advantage and significantly
lower [EURUSD][2] price.

### Dynamics of COVID-19 cases in Europe and the US

 _Source: Nordea Markets._

### Weekly gold trading plan

A strengthening dollar and rising US Treasury yields will create an
extremely unfavorable environment for [XAUUSD][1]. The downtrend will
likely continue, so I recommend holding and adding up to [short
trades][3] formed on the breakout of the $1806 per ounce level in case
of a breakout of support at $1782 or on corrections.





## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. lite.forex/blog/analysts-opinions/gold-situation-is-unclear-forecast-as-of-06092021/