+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-09-13"
description = "US dollar price forecast 13 September 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 13 September 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-09-13

2021-09-13

Dollar is aggressive. Forecast as of 13.09.2021Dmitri Demidenko

[EURUSD][1] bulls used to be supported by an increase in the euro-area
GDP growth rate in the second and third quarters. However, everything
could radically change in the four quarter. What will be with the euro?
Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

There is uncertainty around global economic recovery. Is it about to
reach the pre-pandemic levels? Is there a downturn? Central banks say
one thing, Delta another. Growing uncertainty sends the US stock indexes
down, supporting the US dollar as a safe-haven asset. The [S&P 500][2]
has had the worst losing streak since February, while the greenback has
performed the best rise over the past three weeks. What’s next?

Amid the slowing down economies of the USA and China, the euro area
looks quite stable. The euro-area GDP outperformed the US in the second
quarter and should do the same in the third one. The ECB managed to
taper the QE without a tantrum, and 70% of the population have been
vaccinated. Therefore, there are reasons for some optimism. For some
time, these circumstances allowed the euro to stay afloat. The problem
is that high vaccination coverage does not guarantee an improvement in
the epidemiological situation. An example is Israel. Supply chain
problems are likely to slow down the currency bloc economy in the fourth
quarter, depriving the [EURUSD][1] bulls of the main competitive
advantage.

### Dynamics of world’s leading economies

 _Source_ _: Financial Times_

The euro was supported for a long time by the continuous growth of the
US stock indexes. Investors were buying stocks without seeing any other
alternative. Nevertheless, the factor of high corporate profits has
already been traded. The economy is slowing down. The Fed is ready to
take the path of normalizing monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). The confusion with the
public debt ceiling could provoke a default. In addition, companies'
financial results will be undermined by high inflation, which risks
becoming long-term. Furthermore, the US stocks are overvalued, and the
[S&P 500][2] made 54 all-time peaks in 2021, the highest since 1995, and
a correction is coming. According to Bank of America, the stock index
will decline by 4.7% by the end of 2021. Isn't it a reason to sell the
[EURUSD][1]?

Although the Fed is trying to convince the markets that the monetary
normalization will be extremely slow, experts polled by Financial Times
have a different opinion. 70% of 49 respondents believe that the central
bank will raise the interest rate in 2022, with 20% predicting this will
happen in the first half of next year.

### Forecasts for time frame of Fed’s rate hike



 _Source_ _: Financial Times_

The main reason for the aggressive monetary restriction is high
inflation, which, contrary to the Fed's mantra of slowing it down, is
likely to exceed the 2% target by the end of 2022. Almost 70% of the
Financial Times economists are inclined to this opinion.

### Weekly[ EURUSD][1] trading plan

Thus, the growing risks of a correction in the [S&P 500][2] and a
slowdown in the eurozone economy in the fourth quarter, as well as the
aggressive normalization of the Fed's monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), suggest the
[EURUSD][1] downtrend should continue. If the bulls do not break out the
resistance at 1.1845, they will prove their weakness. If the price goes
down below 1.179, it could continue falling towards 1.1755, 1.1715, and
1.168.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true&language_save=true