+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-23"
description = "Euro price forecast 23 November 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 23 November 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-23

2020-11-23

Euro ignores negative. Forecast as of 23.11.2020Dmitri Demidenko

Despite a number of bearish factors that could have earlier dropped the
euro, the EURUSD is rising. What will be the trend? Let us discuss the
Forex outlook and make up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Monthly euro fundamental forecast

The correction of the US stock indexes and the concerns about a double-
dip recession in the euro area do not stop the [EURUSD][1] bulls. The
idea of the price growth to 1.2 already in 2020 looks more real than it
did in early November. Furthermore, the USA is willing to introduce
COVID-19 vaccines in less than three weeks. The vaccination is a key to
the victory over the pandemic, global economic recovery, and the
improvement of the global risk appetite.

New lockdowns amid the second pandemic wave in the euro area should have
sent the [EURUSD][1] down. Bloomberg experts expect the euro-area PMI to
go down below the critical level of 50 for the first time since June. If
so, the pressure on the ECB will increase, making the central bank
expand the monetary stimulus at the December meeting. However, this fact
has already been priced in the major currency pair rates. Also, there
are talks about the Fed’s monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) easing.

The [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) that the Treasury asks the Fed to return the $ 415 billion in
unused funds that Congress gave the central bank for emergency lending
programs is clearly political. Donald Trump, leaving the White House,
hinders the reforms of the new US president. Trump tries to push Biden
against the Senate and the House of Representatives after the change of
leadership of the Treasury Department and the resumption of the idea of
supporting the economy with cheap and affordable loans. Simultaneously,
the absence of a ‘blue wave’ reduces the chance of a fresh massive
fiscal stimulus. Under such conditions, most of the responsibility is on
the Fed. Further deterioration of the US economy can force the Fed to
resort to the ‘operation twist’ and the QE expansion.

Fed’s monetary easing is a bearish factor for the US dollar. Also,
speculators have recently reduced dollar shorts, which could trigger a
new wave of sell-offs. Some sellers are stepping back, but new dollar
bears should come, so the euro will continue rising.

### Dynamics of USD and speculative positions on US dollar

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The number of new coronavirus cases decreases in the euro-area,
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s expect the UK-EU trade deal shortly, which supports the
[EURUSD][1] bulls. Twenty-four hours is plenty of time, and the
negotiators can well strike a deal at the last moment. The Brexit deal
is likely to send the [GBPUSD][2] up to 1.34-1.35, allowing the euro to
get closer to $1.2.

### Monthly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

I have many times noted that the euro-dollar tends to consolidate in the
range of 1.16-1.2. However, the upper border of the range could move
higher. This is because the US dollar bearish factors are now included
in the exchange rates. The euro can well move into the trading channel
of $1.18-$1.22 in December. Therefore, it is still relevant to buy the
euro on the breakout of the resistance zone of $1.188-$1.189.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-ignores-negative-forecast-as-of-23112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-ignores-negative-forecast-as-of-23112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus