+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-23"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (23 November 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (23 November 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-23

2020-11-23

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 23.11.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

If gold price breaks out level 1890.0, there will be a buy signal.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

On Monday, November 23, oil is trading in the medium-term uptrend, with
the target to test Target Zone 2 [44.22 - 43.71]. Enter buy trades at
good prices on the correction. The trend key support is in the zone
[38.24 — 37.77].

It is clear from the short-term timeframe that the oil buyers broke
through the local high of November 18. However, the price hasn’t broken
out the key resistance of the short-term downtrend. The resistance is in
the zone of [42.63 – 42.39].

Today or tomorrow, the price chart could draw a false breakout pattern
to sell. I recommend trading this pattern if it appears and selling oil
with a target in Target Zone [38.24 - 37.77].

It will be relevant to buy if the price breaks out Intermediary Zone and
consolidates above the zone. If so, the short-term oil trend will turn
up, and the buy target will be the upper Target Zone [45.24 — 44.77].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [42.63 - 42.39].
TakeProfit: 40.05, Target Zone [38.24 - 37.77]. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold price is being corrected up in the medium-term downtrend. If the
price breaks out level 1890, we could buy gold in the correction up to
the trend key resistance [1976.9 — 1965.4].

The short-term gold trend is down. Last week, the price was being
corrected, getting close to Intermediary Zone [1913.6 – 1907.9].
However, buyers didn’t test the resistance level, and the gold price
dropped to the local support zone Additional Zone [1870.3 – 1867.4].

The price didn’t break out Additional Zone, so the correction is likely
to continue. I recommend looking for a pattern to buy gold today.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1870.3 - 1867.4].
TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1913.6 - 1907.9]. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Let us explore the EURUSD H4 price chart.

The euro is trading in the medium-term uptrend that started in late
October. The growth target is Target Zone 2 [1.2032 - 1.2012]. The trend
key support is in the zone of [1.1688 — 1.1665].

In the short-term EURUSD price chart, there is a contradiction with the
medium-term trend. The short-term is down. The trend key resistance is
in the zone of [1.1873 – 1.1861]. Traders have been testing the zone for
the sixth consecutive day. The price hasn’t yet consolidated above the
zone.

The key resistance level is 1.1894; if the price breaks it out, the
trend will turn up. The buy target in case of the uptrend will be the
upper Target Zone [1.2000 – 1.1977].

It will be relevant to sell if there is a sell pattern. The price will
draw the pattern when it goes back below level 1.1850.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1873 - 1.1861]. TakeProfit: 1.1747, Target Zone [1.1688 - 1.1665]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. If the price consolidates above level 1.1850, buy. TakeProfit: [1.2000 - 1.1977]. StopLoss: 1.1848.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-23112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-23112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus