+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-30"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 30, 2020

July 30, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.07.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

The middle-term trend on oil stays upward. Traders are trying to break
through Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. They are unable to do so yet. The
development of correction to the area of the key support level, Target
Zone [35.54 - 34.86], is possible. If it turns out so, look for longs
according to the pattern from the support level with the target in the
maximum of the month.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.07.2020][1]

The local short-term trend is upward. At the moment, there is a
correction and testing of a strong support level - Additional Zone
[40.64 - 40.47] in the chart. Don't hurry to open trades, wait for the
reaction of the market...

Yesterday, I recommended waiting for a pattern to buy oil and for a
breakout of AZ and consolidation below to sell oil. The recommendation
stays the same.

The summer market affects the price of oil… Sluggish activity is
misleading. A strong impulse will either go after the breakout of TZ 5
or after the short-term trend reversal. Be careful in making trading
decisions.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.07.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Buy according to the pattern from Additional Zone [40.64 - 40.47]. TakeProfit: 42.30. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. In case of breakout of Additional Zone [40.64 - 40.47] - sell. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [38.94 - 38.60]. StopLoss: above the next local high.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold has broken through Target Zone 8 [1937.2 - 1931.2]. The next target
in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of the uptrend is Target Zone 9 [1997.2 - 1991.2]. The key
support level is in the area of [1899.1 - 1890.9].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.07.2020][4]

Yesterday, the gold sellers couldn't hold the resistance area [1952.0 -
1936.0] from which I recommended selling the instrument. The price broke
through the zone and reached the resistance level outlined by the
previous local maximum. At the moment, the gold price is in a
correction.

We can identify the new key support for the short-term uptrend from
yesterday's high. Its boundaries are [1939.7 - 1935.6].

Today I propose to wait for a test of it and look for a pattern for
longs with a target at Target Zone [1997.1 - 1988.9]. An alternative
option is the absorption of yesterday's growth and breakout of the
Intermediary Zone. In this case, I recommend selling gold to the lower
TZ.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.07.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Buy according to the pattern from Intermediary Zone [1939.7 - 1935.6]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1997.1 - 1988.9]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. In case of breakout of Intermediary Zone [1939.7 - 1935.6] and consolidation below during the American trading session - sell. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1899.1 - 1890.9]. StopLoss: above the next local high.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The euro has broken through the strong resistance Target Zone 3 [1.1732
- 1.1714] and consolidated above during one trading session. For a
confident consolidation, another American closing above the resistance
is required.

Key support for the trend, from which I recommend looking for new longs,
is shifting to the levels [1.1624 - 1.1606].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.07.2020][7]

Yesterday the July 27 high was renewed and Target Zone 3 [1.1749 -
1.1731] was broken through. Now the target for short-term longs is Gold
Zone 3 [1.1831 - 1.1822].

At the moment, the price is correcting. The key support for the trend is
“waiting” for the price at the levels [1.1715 - 1.1706]. Wait for the
price to reach this area. After the support test, look for longs
according to the pattern with an intermediate target at yesterday's
high.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.07.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

Buy according to the pattern from Intermediary Zone [1.1715 - 1.1706].
TakeProfit: 1.1805, Gold Zone 3 [1.1831 - 1.1822]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.07.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_300720_1.png?w=30&s=a19e56fb339cf8cf74742ea112d1fae7
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_300720_2.png?w=30&s=0a8712679d469b37634eac998026e42e
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_300720_1.png?w=30&s=90f7e71bbf545864be86c78256f3a8e7
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_300720_2.png?w=30&s=e6a360a831b4294d48a10d535d9d3b94
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_300720_1.png?w=30&s=6af37b520b449654f89b59bcbdd1e7dd
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_300720_2.png?w=30&s=360dd213a31db63957e0833bbfed3a87
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-30072020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-30072020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/piggy_bank.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=72cae7aaa20f6f6d77c5aeb0e404d76c