+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-30"
description = "Forecast for AUDJPY for August 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for AUDJPY for August 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 30, 2020

July 30, 2020

Forex in August: market getting ahead of itself?Dmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental forecast for Forex currencies for August

### Selling the U.S. dollar as a safe-haven asset may have gone too far

To say that July was successful for fans of statistical analysis with a
fundamental perspective is an understatement! Selling [USD/NOK][1] and
[USD/SEK][2] has increased the deposit by a total of 10.1%, buying
Australian and Canadian dollars against the American dollar has
increased it by 4.5%. The Norwegian krone managed to simply hold out
against the hugely popular euro, while the Swedish krona gained 1.5%
against it. Indeed, [Vikings are on the warpath][3]! It will be all the
more interesting to observe the influence of the seasonal factor on the
exchange rates in Forex at the end of the summer.

The Japanese yen and the Swiss franc usually feel the best in August,
strengthening in 26 and 25 cases respectively out of 45. The clear
outsiders were the Australian and New Zealand dollars, as well as the
British pound, which finished two last months of the summer in 1975-2019
in the red zone.

### Rise-and-fall periods

![LiteForex: Forecast for AUDJPY for August 2020][4]

 _Source: BoE, calculation by LiteForex._

A similar picture is observed when studying averages and medians. Among
the leaders are safe-haven currencies and monetary units of oil-
exporting countries, assets that are usually classified as risky are in
the outsiders, although at present, considering the sharp decrease in
rates by the central banks of Australia and New Zealand, there are
doubts of the truth of this statement. In any case, such an alignment of
forces usually occurs when the global appetite for risk decreases, and
it should be noted that there are prerequisites for this.

### Average and median values

![LiteForex: Forecast for AUDJPY for August 2020][5]

 _Source: BoE, calculation by LiteForex._

Based on the leading indicators from Bloomberg, the Chinese economy lost
momentum in July after impressive growth in May-June. The aggravation of
US-China relations has been bothering [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s for a long time, and the
dam could give way at any moment. If we add to this the overbought, in
[terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of P/E, [S&P 500][6], then the situation becomes threatening for
fans of risky assets. Primarily for Ozzy and Kiwi because of Canberra's
and Wellington's close ties to Beijing. It should be noted that in the
worst times, the Australian and New Zealand dollars lost an average of
2.4% and 3.2% of their value respectively.

### Dynamics of currency rates during rise-and-fall periods

![LiteForex: Forecast for AUDJPY for August 2020][7]

 _Source: BoE, calculation by LiteForex._

The situation for the bulls in [AUD/USD][8] is aggravated by the record
growth of Covid-19 infections toll in certain states of Australia, which
casts doubts about the faster recovery of its economy compared to the
world counterparts. In my opinion, further escalation of the conflict
between Washington and Beijing in August will allow selling [AUD/JPY][9]
and [NZD/JPY][10].

As for the potential weakness of the British pound, the main reasons may
be the deadlock in the Brexit negotiations, the slow return of the GDP
of the U.K. to the trend, as well as the correction of the S&P 500. The
best way to work with these ideas is by selling [GBP/CHF][11]. The Swiss
franc is able to benefit from fears of a second wave of the pandemic in
Europe and worsening macroeconomic statistics of the euro area. These
factors are likely to hold back the further advance of [EUR/USD][12] to
the north.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][13]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][14] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of AUDJPY in real time mode

![Forex in August: market getting ahead of itself?][15]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDNOK
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDSEK
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/forex-in-july-vikings-are-on-the-warpath/
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/stat1-30-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=af477fb6f66eb5e3c54529db6947cbc8
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/stat2-30-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=37add7025612fc8e167cfddef33fc209
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/stat3-30-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=902165b51c7c8fc7e83c89ef30405a99
   8. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDJPY
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NZDJPY
   11. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPCHF
   12. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   13. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forex-in-august-market-getting-ahead-of-itself&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   14. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forex-in-august-market-getting-ahead-of-itself&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-forex-30-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=11cc683bb3f4df9f346c2052b6b33c18