+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-30"
description = "Forecast for EURUSD for 30 July 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for EURUSD for 30 July 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 30, 2020

July 30, 2020

Forecast for EUR/USD: whose grave is deeper?Dmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental forecast for dollar for today

### Will euro continue to rally or will EUR/USD consolidate?

The Fed was the main player to fight previous recessions, but now it
plays a supporting role. Only the public health sector’s advancement
will indicate an economic recovery. No easy money will protect people
from COVID-19. At the latest FOMC’s meeting Jerome Powell said that
“social distancing measures and a fast reopening of the economy actually
go together. They’re not in competition with each other.” The Fed didn’t
ask for a new lockdown but admitted that leading indicators started
blinking red amid the worsening epidemiological situation. That’s good
[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) for US stocks but bad [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) for the US dollar.

The Fed made it clear that unprecedented economic support measures would
be sustained by extending repurchase agreements and temporary U.S.
dollar liquidity swap lines through March 2021. Sellers of securities
are having difficulties going against the aggressively disposed Fed, so
S&P 500’s growth and the fall of treasuries yield to [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) lows
look logical. The greenback fell too, but [EUR/USD][1]’s failure to
break an important level of 1.18 makes us doubt that big speculators are
ready to continue the rally. At least now.

The euro’s fast growth in July attracted much attention and the number
of bulls is growing. The main question is whether we should buy “at
market” or wait for a pullback. The answer should be looked for in the
stats on the US and German GDPs in Q2. The Reuters experts expect that
the German economy will decline 9% q/q and 11.3%  y-o-y. These are
terrible expectations, but compare them with minus 34.1% in the USA and
you’ll remember that it’s all relative. It’s been the worst result in
the after-war period, which is three times worse than the 1958 anti-
record of 10%.

### US GDP dynamics

### ![LiteForex: Forecast for EURUSD for 30 July 2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

No, it doesn’t mean the US GDP will lose a third of its value: for that
to happen, 1 year will be required because its performance will be
compared with April-June 2019.  Still, the scale of recession is a
question of principle for [EUR/USD][1]. A deeper hole makes it harder to
get out. The euro will grow to $1.182 and $1.187 only if upbeat data on
Germany are combined with pessimistic stats on the US. Otherwise, we
have to be ready for higher volatility and consolidation.

Bulls will start fixing profits due to anxious signals from Europe and
Asia. The number of new coronavirus cases and the unemployment rate in
Spain are growing while in France, consumer confidence is falling. The
Chinese economy slowed down in July according to the Bloomberg leading
indicators. The US-China tense relations should be considered too: the
trading conflict risks resuming as Beijing isn’t rushing to meet its
obligation to increase imports of U.S. goods.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Forecast for EUR/USD: whose grave is deeper?][5]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/gdp-usa-30-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=db3ca71b62ff24c4474e089006b9ab93
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forecast-for-eurusd-whose-grave-is-deeper&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forecast-for-eurusd-whose-grave-is-deeper&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-30-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=436c31574864db0bce1e3677a8e8a860