+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-03"
description = "Economic calendar for the week 04.10.2021 - 10.10.2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Economic calendar for the week 04.10.2021 - 10.10.2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-10-03

2021-10-03

Economic [calendar](https://www.fintechee.com/web-trader/) for the week 04.10.2021 – 10.10.2021Jana Kane

##  **Review of the main events of the Forex economic [calendar](https://www.fintechee.com/web-trader/) for the
next trading week (04.10.2021 – 10.10.2021)**

Despite the decline on Thursday and Friday, the dollar ended the last
week with gains, receiving support from sharply increased US government
bond yields, and the expectations that the Fed's stimulus [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) will
soon be rolled back. According to a recent official statement by the
Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC), a slowdown in asset purchases may
be announced at the next meeting, which will be held on November 2-3.

The DXY dollar index reflecting the value of the dollar against a basket
of 6 major currencies added 0.8% last week, returning to the levels of
the end of September 2020. This was already the 4th week of the dollar's
continuous strengthening.

The main US stock indexes, on the contrary, declined last week.
Investors seem to have believed in the Fed's intentions to start rolling
back its stimulus [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) later this year.

Next week, financial market participants will pay attention to the
publication of important macro statistics from the United States,
Australia, Germany, the Eurozone and Canada, as well as the results of
the meetings of the central banks of Australia and New Zealand. But the
focus of their attention will be the on publication on Friday of monthly
data from the US labor market, which, along with inflation indicators
and data on the state of GDP, are key for the Fed in determining the
prospects for its monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/).

During the upcoming week Australia is switching to daylight saving time
(forward 1 hour), and China celebrates the National Day of the People's
Republic of China from October 1 to 7. The country's stock exchanges and
banks are closed on these days, which will affect the activity and
trading volumes during the Asian sessions.

 ***during the coming week, new events may be added to the [calendar](https://www.fintechee.com/web-trader/) and
/ or some scheduled events may be canceled**

 ****GMT time**

###  **Monday, October 4**

No important macro statistics planned to be released. OPEC will hold a
regular meeting in Vienna, which will be attended by representatives of
13 OPEC oil countries and 10 more countries, including Russia,
Azerbaijan, and Kazakhstan, and will decide on the volume of oil
production for the coming months.

###  **Tuesday, October 5**

###  **00:30 AUD Balance of trade**

The indicator (balance of trade) assesses the ratio of Australia's
exports and imports. Growth in exports from Australia leads to an
increase in the trade surplus, which has a positive impact on the AUD.
Previous values: A$ 12.117 billion (July), A$ 9.681 billion (May), A$
8.028 billion (April), A$ 5.574 billion (March), A$ 7.529 billion
(February). A decrease in the trade surplus may negatively affect the
Australian dollar. Conversely, growing trade surplus is a positive
factor for the AUD. Forecast for August: A$ 10.650 billion.

###  **03:30 AUD RBA's decision on interest rate. RBA's accompanying
statement**

In March 2020, the RBA made 2 rate cuts, bringing it to the level of
0.25%, and launched a quantitative easing program. At the same time, for
the 3-year government bonds of Australia, the target level of yield is
set at 0.25%. The RBA has launched a program of lending to the banking
system in the amount of at least 90 billion Australian dollars.

In early November 2020, the RB of Australia lowered its key rate again,
bringing it and its 3-year bond target to 0.10% from 0.25%, and
announced A$ 100 billion quantitative easing program to support the
economic recovery.

The main negative factors for the Australian economy are weak wages
growth, a weak labor market and a slowdown in growth. Annual inflation
has remained below the RBA's target range of 2% -3% for four years.

Unemployment in the country has remained above the 5% level for many
years, unwilling to decline. Now the Australian economy is experiencing
difficulties due to the coronavirus pandemic, which has hit the tourism
and transport sectors hard.

It is expected that at this meeting the Central Bank of Australia will
leave the rate at the current level of 0.1%, although unexpected
decisions are not ruled out.

In an accompanying statement, the leaders of the RBA will explain the
reasons for the decision on the rate. If the RBA signals the possibility
of further easing of monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) in the near future, the risks of a
fall in the Australian dollar will increase.

###  **14:00 USD US Services PMI (from ISM)**

This indicator assesses the state of the services sector in the US
economy. These services sectors (as opposed to the manufacturing sector)
have practically no impact on the country's GDP.

In July this indicator came out with a value of 64.1, and in August -
61.7. A result above 50 is seen as positive for the USD. Outlook for
September: 59.8, which is likely to have a positive overall effect on
the USD. However, a deeper relative decline in the index could
negatively affect the dollar in the short term.

###  **Wednesday, October 6**

###  **01:00 NZD Reserve Bank of New Zealand's interest rate decision.
RBNZ's accompanying statement**

After the bank's management decided to cut the rate by 0.75% during an
unscheduled meeting in March 2020, the current interest rate of the
Reserve Bank of New Zealand is at 0.25%. The bank's management explained
its decision by the loss of momentum in the New Zealand economy and a
sharp slowdown in the global economy amid the coronavirus pandemic.

“Global economic activity continues to weaken, which wears down demand
for goods and services from New Zealand. Increased uncertainty and
contraction in international trade are contributing to lower economic
growth in trading partner countries,” a recent statement from the RBNZ
said.

The RBNZ believes that wages growth remains weak. At the same time,
inflationary expectations are declining, and low levels of business
confidence indicate a slowdown in hiring and wages growth.

Subdued economic growth (New Zealand's GDP growth has slowed since the
second half of 2018) and a weakening labor market, as well as escalating
international trade wars and a deteriorating global economic outlook
have forced the Reserve Bank of New Zealand to keep interest rates low.
An additional and unforeseen risk to the global and New Zealand
economies is the coronavirus epidemic.

As a result of the meeting held in August, the Reserve Bank of New
Zealand left the key interest rate unchanged, although many economists
were expecting a rate hike of 0.25%.

In the accompanying statement, the RBNZ said the economy no longer needs
the current level of monetary stimulus, however, the country's central
bank decided to keep the rate at a record low of 0.25% due to
uncertainty surrounding the Covid-19 outbreak.

Now, it is again expected that at this meeting the RBNZ will decide to
raise the rate, but it may also speak in favor of lowering it in the
coming months if the economic situation in the country and in the world
worsens. Market participants who follow the NZD quotes need to be
prepared for a sharp increase in volatility during this period of time.

In the accompanying statement and comments, the RBNZ management will
provide an explanation of the decision on the interest rate and comment
on the economic conditions that facilitated the adoption of this
decision.

At this time, the volatility in the quotations of the New Zealand dollar
may rise sharply.

Earlier, the RBNZ stated that against the background of "many factors of
uncertainty" monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) "will remain soft for the foreseeable
future," but "may be adjusted accordingly." According to the previously
expressed opinion of the bank's management, for a stable recovery of the
New Zealand economy and inflation growth, "a lower rate of the New
Zealand dollar is still needed."

###  **09:00** **EUR Retail sales in Eurozone**

Retail sales is a major consumer spending indicator that shows the
change in retail sales. A high result strengthens the euro, and vice
versa, a low result weakens it. Outlook for August: +0.8% (+ 0.4% y/y)
against -2.3% (+3.1% y/y) in July, +1.5% (+5.0% y/y) in June, +4.6%
(+9.0% y/y) in May, -3.1% and +23.9% (y/y) in March, +3.0% and -2.9%
(y/y) in February, -5.9% and -6.4% (y/y) in January. The data suggests
that, despite the rise in indices, retail sales have not yet reached the
pre-coronavirus levels after a sharp drop in March-April 2020, when
strict quarantine measures were in force in Europe. Nevertheless,
better-than-expected data is likely to have a positive effect on the
euro.

###  **12:15 USD ADP National Employment Report** ****

Typically, the ADP's private sector employment report has a strong
impact on the market and dollar quotes. An increase in the value of this
indicator has a positive effect on the dollar. The growth in the number
of workers in the US private sector in September is expected to be
+475,000 (against an increase of 374,000 in August, 330,000 in July,
692,000 in June, 978,000 in May, 742,000 in April, 517,000 in March,
117,000 in February, 174,000 in January, a drop of -123,000 in
December). The relative growth of the indicator may have a positive
effect on the dollar quotes, while the relative decline in the indicator
affects them negatively. Therefore, the market reaction may be negative,
and the dollar may decline if the data turns out to be worse than
forecast.

Millions of Americans have previously been laid off due to the
coronavirus pandemic and related quarantine measures. The bulk of
layoffs were concentrated in tourism and retail. Other important sectors
of the economy were also affected. ADP previously reported that the most
significant drop in employment was recently noted in the construction
and financial services sectors.

Although the ADP report does not directly correlate with the official US
Department of Labor data on the labor market, which will be released on
Friday, however, the ADP report is often a harbinger of it, having a
noticeable impact on the market.

###  **Thursday, October 7**

###  **11:30** **EUR Account of the ECB meeting on monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)**

This document provides an overview of the current ECB [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) with
planned changes in the financial and monetary areas. The publication of
this document may cause a surge in volatility in trading in the euro and
on the European stock market.

Investors will carefully study the text of the minutes of the recent ECB
meeting to pick up additional signals regarding the QE program and the
prospects for monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). Recently, weak macro data from the
Eurozone have been indicating a slowdown in the European economy, which,
against the backdrop of international trade conflicts, puts pressure on
the ECB to further ease monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/).

However, volatility in euro trading could rise sharply if the minutes
contain unexpected statements or new information regarding the outlook
for monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/).

###  **16:00 CAD Speech by Tiff Macklem, head of the Bank of Canada**

The Canadian economy, as well as the entire global economy, slowed down
in 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic. Earlier, Tiff Macklem said that
the country's economy is quite stable. However, the situation has
changed rapidly, and not for the better. It will be interesting now to
hear Macklem's opinion on the sustainability of the Canadian economy and
the monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) of the central bank.

If Macklem touches on the topic of the monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) of the Bank of
Canada, the volatility in the quotes of the Canadian dollar will rise
sharply. His tough tone will help strengthen the Canadian dollar. The
soft rhetoric of Macklem's speech and the propensity to pursue a soft
monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) will negatively affect the CAD quotes.

He will probably also clarify the decision on the interest rate recently
adopted by the Bank of Canada and may provide some guidance for
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s before the next meeting of the central bank.

###  **Friday, October 8**

###  **12:30 USD Average hourly wages. Non-farm payrolls. Unemployment
rate**

The most important indicators of the state of the labor market in the
United States in September. Forecast: +0.4% (against +0.6% in August,
+0.4% in July, +0.3% in June, +0.5% in May, +0.7% in April) / +0.500
million (against +0.235 million in August, +0.943 million in July,
+0.850 million in June, +0.559 million in May, +0.266 million in April,
+0.916 million in March, +0.379 in February, +0.049 million in January,
-0.140 million in December, +0.245 million in November, +0.638 million
in October, +1.763 million in July and -20.687 million in April 2020) /
5.1% (against 5.2% in August, 5, 4% in July, 5.9% in June, 5.8% in May,
6.1% in April, 6.0% in March, 6.2% in February, 6.3% in January, 6.7 %
in December and November, 6.9% in October, 13.3% in May and 14.7% in
April 2020), respectively.

In general, the indicators can be described as encouraging. The data
speaks of continued improvement in the US labor market after plummeting
in the first half of 2020. Prior to the coronavirus, the US labor market
remained strong, signaling the stability of the American economy and
supporting dollar quotes.

It is often difficult to predict the market reaction to the publication
of indicators. Many indicators for previous periods are subject to
revision. Now it will be even more difficult to do this, because the
economic situation in the United States and many other large economies
remains controversial due to the coronavirus. In any case, when data
from the US labor market is published, a surge in volatility is expected
in trading not only in the USD, but throughout the entire financial
market. Probably the most cautious [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s will choose to stay out of
the market during this timeframe.

###  **12:30 CAD Unemployment rate in Canada**

Statistics Canada is to publish data on the country's labor market for
September. Unemployment has risen in Canada in recent months, including
amid massive business closures due to coronavirus and layoffs.
Unemployment rose from the usual 5.6% - 5.7% to 7.8% in March and up to
13.7% in May 2020. If unemployment continues to rise, the Canadian
dollar will decline. If the data turn out to be better than the previous
value, the Canadian dollar will strengthen. A decrease in the
unemployment rate is a positive factor for the CAD, an increase in
unemployment is a negative factor. In August, unemployment was at the
level of 7.1% (against 7.5% in July, 7.8% in June, 8.2% in May, 8.1% in
April, 7.5% in March, 8.2% % in February, 9.4% in January, 8.8% in
December, 8.6% in November).

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )