+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-11-02"
description = "Australian dollar price forecast 2 November 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Australian dollar price forecast 2 November 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-11-02

2021-11-02

RBA lost to the market. Forecast as of 02.11.2021Dmitri Demidenko

It is generally accepted that markets follow central banks, but the
opposite is often the case. A typical example is the refusal of the
Reserve Bank of Australia to target bond yields. How will this affect
[AUDUSD][1]? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading
plan.

## Weekly Australian dollar fundamental forecast

Looking at the recent Forex events, there is a feeling that the markets
are testing the strength of the central banks and actively mocking them.
Loonie has not been able to capitalize much on the Bank of Canada's
unexpected tapering of the QE program. The euro price soared, although
the ECB noted that [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s' expectations about the timing of the rate
hike were wrong. Finally, the Aussie collapsed, although the RBA refused
to control the yield curve and hinted that the cash rate could rise not
in 2024 but in 2023.

As a rule, a change of expectations of an increase in the main interest
rate to an earlier period is a bullish signal for the national currency,
but not in the case of the RBA. The market considered the peaceful
prospects of the central bank untenable even before the November meeting
of the regulator. Its instruments signalled a 15 bps increase in the
cash rate by May and two more monetary restrictions by the end of 2022.
Bloomberg experts expected the rate to rise in early 2023. The Reserve
Bank was hampering both. Finally, in November, the RBA did what was
expected of it, followed by a [AUDUSD][1] sell-off on the facts.

According to the head of the central bank, Philip Lowe, given that other
market interest rates have changed in response to the increased
likelihood of higher inflation, the effectiveness of the yield target in
Australia has decreased. Simply put, when debt rates rise around the
world, the RBA is unable to target yield. Indeed, how can you keep it at
0.1% if the market is showing 0.8%?

### Dynamics of the yield of 3-year Australian bonds



 _Source: Bloomberg._

The lowering forecast for Australia's GDP growth to 3% in 2021 and
rather modest inflation estimates (2.25% this year and 2.5% by the
middle of the next) put pressure on the Aussie.

Does the Reserve Bank have reversed the [AUDUSD][1] mid-term uptrend? I
do not think so. Yes, the bulls exited long trades. Yes, the upcoming
FOMC meeting and the release of US employment data could push the pair
down even further. Markets, however, are still expecting a cash rate
hike in 2022. Australia's fourth-quarter GDP acceleration after the end
of lockdown seems to be a done deal, and the Aussie is likely to benefit
from the strength of the commodity market, including the energy crisis.

### Dynamics of expectations of a cash rate increase

 _Source: Bloomberg._

I don't think the Fed will aggressively tighten monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). After
strong September's PCE and wages data for the third quarter, CME
derivatives began to signal about three acts of monetary restriction in
2022. I believe that the Fed does not make such plans yet, so the
derivatives market estimates look overstated, which suggests that the US
dollar is slightly overbought.

### Weekly [AUDUSD][1] trading plan

This circumstance, along with the strength of the commodity market and
the Australian economy and the earlier start of the monetary
normalization of the Reserve Bank of Australia than their officials
claim, allows me to recommend buying [AUDUSD][1] when the price rebounds
from supports at 0.742 and 0.736.



## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true