+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-09"
description = "Euro price forecast 9 February 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 9 February 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-09

2021-02-09

Euro remembers everything! Forecast as of 09.02.2021Dmitri Demidenko

In May-June 2020, the foundation was laid under the [EURUSD][1] uptrend
amid the reopening of the euro-area economies, increased global risk
appetite, and EU unity. History repeats itself. Let us discuss the Forex
outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

There are three men in a boat (to say nothing of the dog). When the
world’s leading economies, China, the US, and the euro area, are on the
same side, it is difficult to expect that the growth rate increase in
one of them will significantly strengthen the national currency.
Especially when this currency is the main safe-haven asset, it is
extremely sensitive to global risk appetite changes. A soon adoption of
the US new fiscal stimulus package by the Congress, easing political
risks in Europe, and the end of the COVID-19 seasonal peak are pushing
the [EURUSD][1] up.

The United States is the world's largest net importer. Joe Biden's new
bailout package will boost domestic demand while helping export
countries' economies and stock markets. Therefore, the export-led euro-
area economy should benefit from the US fiscal stimulus. If there are
growth drivers in the US and China that should work in 2021, they will
support other economies. If so, Senate approval of $ 1.9 trillion in
fiscal stimulus and House review of the bill are powerful growth drivers
not only for the [S&P 500][2] but for the euro as well. Yes, Goldman
Sachs suggests that the final aid package will be $1.5 trillion, but
this amount should be enough to accelerate the US GDP up to 11% in the
second quarter and ensure an annual growth of 6.8% in 2021.

The [EURUSD][1] bulls are encouraged by the reopening of the euro-area
economies after the lockdown. The first is Iceland. It is likely to be
followed by Denmark, Belgium, and other countries, where the number of
infections is declining and rolling down from the peaks.

### Dynamics of COVID-19 cases in Eurozone and USA

 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

### The share of current cases, % of peak



 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

The easing of the political risks in the euro area also supports the
euro. Mario Draghi she’ll make a common euro-area budget a [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)
priority for Italy. The idea originated in France at the height of the
euro-area debt crisis in 2012. Its proponents argued that a shared
budget was needed to stabilize the economy during recessions. A joint
budget has been seen as a key missing piece in the euro’s architecture.
Super Mario had called for euro-member states to forge a common budget
when he was in charge of Europe’s central bank. But now he’s doing it as
Italy’s leader.

Thus, the current [EURUSD][1] market sentiment resembles the events of
mid-2020. At that time, the reopening of the economies after lockdowns,
the rapid growth of world stock indices and global risk appetite, as
well as the unity of the EU, which created the European recovery fund,
laid a solid foundation under the [EURUSD][1] uptrend. Nowadays, the
euro-area economies are about to reopen. The [S&P 500][2] is rallying up
amid strong corporate reporting and hopes for a new stimulus package,
and Rome is calling for a shared budget.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

The [EURUSD][1] bulls are about to take by storm level 1.208, which was
earlier the main support. If the level is broken out upside, the euro-
dollar should continue to rally up to 1.2125, 1.215, 1.221 and 1.225. I
would consider a failure in the first level test to confirm the signal
that the level breakout at the second try will ensure the uptrend.
However, everything can happen in Forex.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true