+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-09"
description = "Platinum price forecast 9 February 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Platinum price forecast 9 February 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-09

2021-02-09

Platinum gave head start to gold. Forecast as of 09.02.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

For a long time, platinum has been overshadowed by gold and palladium,
but in the fourth quarter of 2020, it was able to mark a better result
compared to its competitors and is going to close the gap in 2021. Let
us discuss this topic and make up a trading plan.

## Fundamental platinum forecast for a year

News of COVID-19 cases decline, and the high chances for Joe Biden's new
fiscal stimulus package to pass through Congress positively impacted the
precious metals sector. Gold showed growth on expectations of inflation
accelerating concerning a weak US dollar. Platinum has skyrocketed to
its highest level since August 2016. This asset is one of my [top
favorites in 2021][1], so I am pleased about its success.

Even though in 2020, platinum showed the worst growth (+11%) in the
precious metals sector, it was the best (+19%) in the fourth quarter.
This was facilitated by the belief in a reflationary environment due to
Joe Biden's victory in the presidential elections and the "blue" wave,
as well as a clear underestimation of the asset. It turned out that the
Democrats' victory in the Senate triggered the [XPTUSD][2] correction.
Yet when the dollar grows amid disappointment in the speed of
vaccination is one thing, and when it falls due to the passage of the
COVID-19 seasonal peak is another. Some bear speculators on the
greenback lost their nerves and closed their shorts. But without a
doubt, new USD traders will come to the market soon.

### US dollar and other currencies' managed money positions



 _Source: Bloomberg, CFTC._

Platinum positioning is optimal for the continuation of the upward
movement. Asset managers' net long positions are far from the all-time
highs at the turn of 2019-2020.

### Platinum managed money position



 _Source: Bloomberg, CFTC._

Currently, the analyzed asset is trading at a discount of $670 and $1170
per ounce compared to gold and palladium, respectively. The maximum
premiums were $1,144 and $1,600 in 2008, with discounts of $1,000 and
$1,540 in the spring of 2020. Platinum has [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/)ly been undervalued
compared to its major competitors.

The main drivers of [XPTUSD][2] growth in 2021 will be: increased demand
for jewelry in China, increased industrial use of platinum, increased
consumer demand for cars, and interest in platinum in the autocatalysts'
field, including in cars running on hydrogen. These factors, along with
the underestimation of platinum, favorable positioning in the
derivatives market, a weak dollar, and a reflationary environment, will
contribute to the platinum rally.

Indeed, in the next few months, the situation that was in the fourth
quarter of 2020 may repeat itself. Belief in victory over COVID-19 will
facilitate the opening and explosive growth of the world's major
economies, increasing global risk appetite and accelerating inflation.
The Fed will continue to adhere to ultra-easy monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), not
allowing debt market rates to rise too quickly. Cheap money from the Fed
and Congress will push gold up, forcing all other precious metals in the
same direction.

### Platinum trading plan for a year

Thus, the bullish platinum market environment allows me to maintain an
optimistic outlook. [I still expect][3] [XPTUSD][2] to rise to
$1200-1235 in the first quarter and to $1330 by the end of 2021. I would
suggest buying the platinum.



## Price chart of XPTUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/top-five-investment-strategies-for-2021-forecast-as-of-31122020/
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XPTUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/platinum-says-goodbye-to-depression-forecast-as-of-21012021/