+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-09"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (9 February 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (9 February 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=18.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-09

2021-02-09

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 09.02.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Gold in the medium-term chart corrected in the zone of good sell prices
1840 - 1830.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The oil price continues to rise within the medium-term uptrend. The
growth target is Target Zone 5 [59.82 - 59.31]. Expect the zone to be
reached this week. After that, it will be possible to consider trades in
the correction.

In the meantime, continue to look for purchases. The key support is
shifting to the levels [53.98 - 53.52].

Yesterday, the uptrend continued, and the Gold Zone [57.14 - 56.90] was
broken out. The next growth target is Target Zone 4 [59.51 - 59.05].

The priority work scenario: enter oil trades at strong support zones.
Wait for the price fall and enter buy trades.

Sales look unreasonable and risky at the moment, given the strong nature
of the uptrend.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [57.37 - 57.26]. TakeProfit: 58.47. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [56.24 - 56.01]. TakeProfit: 58.47. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold in the medium-term chart corrected in the zone of good sell prices
1840 - 1830. According to the methodology, it is reasonable to look for
a pattern and open a short trade with the target at last week's low.

The short-term is down. Yesterday the price corrected to the zone of the
trend key resistance [1845 - 1840]. Wait for a sell pattern to form and
sell metal with the target at last week's low + Target Zone [1775 -
1765].

Only after the trend reverses up start buying. This requires a breakout
of the resistance at level 1845 and closing the US trading session
above. In this case, the buyers' target will be the upper Target Zone
[1906 - 1895].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1845 - 1840].
TakeProfit: 1785. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro in the medium-term chart has broken out the resistance level of
1.2062 and is now moving towards the border of the medium-term downtrend
[1.2128 - 1.2112]. Wait for the level test and look for a sell pattern
with the target at last week's low.

Yesterday, the short-term trend reversed up. The US session closed above
the key resistance Intermediary Zone [1.2040 - 1.2032]. For this week,
the buying target opens in the upper Target Zone [1.2128 - 1.2112].

It is reasonable to consider euro purchases on correction at support
zones: Additional Zone [1.2042 - 1.2038] and Intermediary Zone [1.2002 -
1.1994]. It requires searching for a reversal pattern and buying an
instrument. It is reasonable to set the first target at the update of
the day's high.

Don't consider sales according to the methodology yet.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.2042 - 1.2038]. TakeProfit: 1.2081, Target Zone [1.2128 - 1.2112]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.2002 - 1.1994]. TakeProfit: 1.2081, Target Zone [1.2128 - 1.2112]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-09022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-09022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus