+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-17"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (17 February 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (17 February 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-17

2021-02-17

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 17.02.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Will the oil bulls manage to consolidate the price above Target Zone 5
[59.82 - 59.31]? That's the question.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Will the oil bulls manage to consolidate the price above Target Zone 5
[59.82 - 59.31]? That's the question. There are no signs of
consolidation yet. It is worth looking at today's closing of the US
trading session. According to the fundamental analysis, traders have
every chance to break out the resistance and send the oil rate to the
Target Zone 6 [64.92 - 64.41].

The short-term timeframe shows that the support at Additional Zone
[59.64 - 59.53] has not been broken out. The short-term trend is up, and
there is a target for it - Gold Zone [61.54 - 61.32]. A buy pattern will
appear in case of breaking out the resistance 60.22.

As for the sales, they can also be considered, but not earlier than
after breaking out the Additional Zone. If the price breaks out the
level 59.33, a sell signal will appear with the target in Intermediary
Zone [58.51 - 58.28].

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [59.64 - 59.53]. TakeProfit: 60.71, Gold Zone [61.54 - 61.32]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. If the price breaks out the level 59.33, sell. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [58.51 - 58.28]. StopLoss: 60.03.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold bears are implementing a plan-program to sell in the medium term.
There are two targets: February's low and Target Zone 2 [1759 - 1749].
Hold sales entered in the resistance zone [1840 - 1830].

The short-term is down. Yesterday, due to the strengthening of the US
dollar, the fall of XAUUSD price occurred. The short-term trend has long
been down, and the target has also been known for a long time - Target
Zone [1775 - 1765].

Look for new sales on correction in resistance Additional Zone [1816 -
1814]. The local target will be the day's low.

Sales in the Intermediary Zone [1845 - 1840] can be transferred to
breakeven.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Hold sales entered according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1845 -
1840]. TakeProfit: 1785, Target Zone [1775 - 1765]. StopLoss: at
breakeven.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Yesterday, the euro bulls could not break out the resistance level
1.2150. As a result of the release of negative statistics for the
Eurozone (GDP in the fourth quarter of 2020 fell by 0.6%, in annual
[terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) the indicator made -5.0%), the price began to fall.

The medium-term is down. The key resistance is Target Zone [1.2128 -
1.2112]. While the zone is held, it is profitable to look for sales
according to the pattern.

The short-term trend remains up.

The trend key support is located at the level [1.2089 - 1.2081]. Now
traders are testing it, so watch their reaction. When a buy pattern
appears, it will be possible to consider opening long trades with a
target at yesterday's high.

If the Intermediary Zone is broken out and the price fixes below, the
short-term trend will reverse down. In this case, starting from the next
trading day, it will be profitable to enter euro sales with a target at
the lower Target Zone [1.2009 - 1.1993].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.2089 - 1.2081]. TakeProfit: 1.2170. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. If the Intermediary Zone [1.2089 - 1.2081] is broken out, sell the next day. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.2009 - 1.1993]. StopLoss: wait for the local maximum at H1, beyond which  place a stop loss.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-17022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-17022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus