+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-27"
description = "Japanese Yen price forecast 27 April 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Japanese Yen price forecast 27 April 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-27

2021-04-27

Yen: mission impossible. Forecast as of 27.04.2021Dmitri Demidenko

After an active period from March to April, it is time for the
[USDJPY][1] to slow down and consolidate for a while. Moreover, the US
debt market rates are ready to stabilize at current levels. Let us
discuss this question and make up a trading plan

## Weekly yen fundamental analysis

While the Bank of Japan claims it will not be able to reach the 2%
inflation target while Haruhiko Kuroda is in power, and the US debt
market is preparing another test of the Fed's strength, [USDJPY][1]
bulls are gradually recovering. For most of April, the bulls had to
remain passive amid falling US Treasury yields. As a result, the yen
strengthened against the greenback by almost 3% from the March low.
However, it will not be easy for the Japanese currency to continue to do
so.

Mission impossible. BoJ has failed to meet its objectives even after
more than ten years of aggressive monetary stimulus. At the last
meeting, the Japanese central bank raised its GDP forecast for the
2021/2022 fiscal year, which started in April, to 4% and noted that
consumer prices will be able to reach the 2% target only by the end of
March 2024. On the contrary, over the next 12 months, they will slow
down to 0.1%.

### Dynamics of Japanese inflation

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The situation is fundamentally different from the United States and the
eurozone, where inflation has recently been growing at a rapid pace.
This fact does not allow Haruhiko Kuroda and his colleagues to even
think about normalizing monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). The Board of Governors will
continue to target local bond yields, which makes the yen price
dependent on US debt rates. Their fall in April, which was unexpected
for many [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s, encouraged [USDJPY][1] bears to go ahead and develop
a correction.

Curiously, rumors are circulating in the market about the high demand
for Treasuries from Japanese accounts. Interest in inflation-protected
bonds has been growing for 29 consecutive weeks, which is the longest
period since 2010. By the end of the five-day period ending on April 21,
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s placed $1.2 billion into TIPS-focused funds.

### Dynamics of [ETF](https://www.fixpro.org/post/etf-liquidity/) capital flows focused on TIPS

 _Source: Wall Street Journal._

Shortly before the FOMC meeting, Treasury yields began to rise again. In
my opinion, it is all due to the hawkish forecasts from Bloomberg
experts. 45% of 49 economists believe that the Fed will announce plans
to taper QE by $120 billion a month in the fourth quarter, while 14%
expect it to happen in the third. The previous poll featured 2022, so
the expectations of an earlier end of the monetary stimulus supported
the US dollar.

### Weekly [USDJPY][1] trading plan

In my opinion, given the dynamics of global business activity, US bond
yields fell too low. The debt market believed the Fed promising to
remain passive, however, the US economy's rapid growth during the rest
of the year will increase the risks of raising or stabilizing bond
interest rates at current levels, which will create preconditions for
the [USDJPY][1] consolidation in the zone of 107.5-109.5. If in the
coming days the USDJPY bulls manage to consolidate the price above level
108.2, enter short-term USDJPY buy trades with a target around the upper
border of the consolidation range.



## Price chart of USDJPY in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDJPY&returnUrl=true