+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-06"
description = "Japanese Yen price forecast 6 October 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Japanese Yen price forecast 6 October 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-10-06

2021-10-06

Yen is above law. Forecast as of 06.10.2021Dmitri Demidenko

For years, the BoJ was unable to reach its inflation target, despite
colossal monetary stimulus. The world economy on the verge of
stagflation and the weakening yen can significantly simplify the task.
Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan for
[USDJPY][1].

## Monthly Japanese yen fundamental forecast

Rules are made to be broken. While most of the world's central banks are
thinking about [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) smooth out supply shocks and solve the problem of
the coming stagflation with the help of monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), BoJ does not
experience such problems. Moreover, it can benefit from the current
situation. With supply chain disruptions and a weakening yen, inflation
in Japan is finally getting the case to move up.

The truth is that different economies around the world have emerged from
the recession in different ways. Haruhiko Kuroda noted that, unlike the
United States, Japanese companies in the economic downturn preferred not
to dismiss employees but to cut their salaries and keep jobs. As a
result, there is no shortage of personnel in Japan, as in the United
States. Local employers do not need to raise wages to attract workers.
Hence inflation in Japan is not and will not rise as fast as in the US.
If so, then the BoJ does not need to abandon its ultra-easy monetary
[policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), which creates a solid foundation under the [USDJPY][1] uptrend.

### Dynamics of unemployment in the USA and Japan

 _Source: Trading Economics._

The different dynamics of consumer prices in the United States and Japan
are key to understanding what is happening and will happen to the
analyzed pair. For many months, the Fed kept repeating the mantra about
the temporary nature of high inflation, which pushed Treasury yields to
the very bottom. Recently, FOMC officials have begun to refrain from the
old rhetoric, arguing that the factors pushing the CPI up, most likely,
will remain in force in 2022. Does this mean admitting their own
mistakes? If so, the rates on US debt risk growing significantly higher,
which will force the [USDJPY][1] bears to retreat.

In fact, Forex exchange rates are determined by capital flows. While the
Bank of Japan, using yield curve targeting, keeps rates on local bonds
at zero level, the price of the analyzed pair begins to depend on the
Treasury yield. Its rally means the flow of capital from Asia to North
America and the yen's weakening against the greenback. Indeed, at
present, the interest rate differential on the 10-year US and Japanese
securities has been fluctuating near the maximum levels since March
2020, which predetermines the dominance of the [USDJPY][1] bulls.

### Dynamics of [USDJPY][1] and Treasury yield



 _Source: Trading Economics._

### Monthly [USDJPY][1] trading plan

How long will the Treasury sell-off last, and how high can yields climb?
In my opinion, if the economy returns to its normal state, and central
banks are going to get rid of monetary stimulus, then the markets should
return to normal as well. I expect the March peak of 1.75% on 10-year
bonds to fall quickly and rates will continue to rally in the direction
of at least 2%. This gives reason to adhere to the previous strategy of
buying [USDJPY][1] on correction in the direction of 113 and 115.







## Price chart of USDJPY in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDJPY&returnUrl=true