+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-06"
description = "US dollar price forecast 6 October 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 6 October 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-10-06

2021-10-06

Dollar learns from mistakes. Forecast as of 06.10.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The Fed calmed down the bond market by its mantra about the temporary
nature of high inflation, but it is waking up now. The rise in Treasury
yields is more important for the [EURUSD][1] bears than the drop in the
[S&P 500][2]. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading
plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

In 2020, financial analysts from large banks and investment companies
forecasted the US dollar downtrend in 2021, naming the US twin deficit
as a main bearish driver for the USD index. In August, the US trade
deficit reached a record $73.3 billion due to the exceeding of imports
(+ 1.4%) over exports (+ 0.5%), but the greenback is currently trading
up. Moreover, there are more and more optimistic forecasts in the
assessments of the USD prospects for 2022.

### Dynamics of US trade balance

 _Source: Wall Street Journal_

In theory, the impact of the twin deficit on the exchange rate
translates into the need to weaken the dollar to attract external
investment to cover the deficit. At the same time, the decline in net
exports is hampering the growth of US GDP. In practice, everything is
different. A much more significant factor for foreign [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s is not a
weak greenback but the growing Treasury yield. The Fed has calmed the
bond market with its mantra about the temporary nature of high
inflation, and now, with officials increasingly talking about the long-
term nature of supply shocks, it is starting to wake up.

The Treasuries sell-off could accelerate if the Fed acknowledges its
mistake and aggressively raises interest rates. This scenario is growing
more likely, and the derivatives market begins to overestimate the pace
of monetary tightening, but it has room for maneuver. Currently, CME
derivatives expect the first federal funds rate hike in November 2022
and expect it to rise by 100 basis points only by 2025. The latest FOMC
forecasts suggest that the federal funds rate will rise to 1.75% already
in 2024.

Treasury yield is clearly underestimated, it has room to grow, and it is
about to rise quickly, regardless of foreign and domestic problems.
Kristalina Georgieva hints that the IMF will downgrade its forecast for
global GDP at 6% in 2021 due to risks associated with debt, inflation,
and diverging growth of economies. Following Evergrande, another Chinese
developer, Fantasia Holdings, failed to pay its obligations, suggesting
that the problem has affected China’s entire real estate market. What if
investments in this sector start to slow down GDP seriously? How will it
expand?

### Structure and dynamics of China’s economy

 _Source: Financial Times_

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Furthermore, the deadlock in the issue of the US national debt ceiling,
the energy crisis in Europe, and the persistence of a tense
epidemiological situation in the world make the Treasury yield rally
look unnatural. Investors do not typically sell safe-haven assets when
the market is pressed down with fears. The reason is that only the US
dollar currently justifies the safe-haven status, and this advantage
outweighs the US twin deficit. If the [EURUSD][1] falls below the
support levels of 1.158 and 1.156, the downtrend will continue. If the
bulls hold the price above the supports, the pair is likely to
consolidate.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true