+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-25"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (25 January 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (25 January 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-25

2021-01-25

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 25.01.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Oil is testing the support level 51.88. If the price doesn't break out
the level, the medium-term uptrend will continue

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil is testing the support level 51.88. If the price doesn't break out
the level, the medium-term uptrend will continue, and the target in
Target Zone 4 [54.72 - 54.21] will be reached.

If the bears break out the support of 51.88, then a medium-term
correction in the trend key support [49.39 - 48.94] zone will occur.

The short-term timeframe shows that the main scenario to sell oil with
the target in Intermediary Zone [51.66 - 51.43] has worked out. Last
Friday, the trend key support was tested and held. Traders also tested
the local resistance of Additional Zone [52.66 - 52.55].

This resistance will be significant today. The short-term trend's fate
will depend on whether traders succeed in breaking out the zone or not.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [52.66 - 52.55]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [51.66 - 51.43]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. If the price breaks out the Additional Zone [52.66 - 52.55], buy. TakeProfit: 53.90, Target Zone 3 [55.00 - 54.53]. StopLoss: below the significant local low.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold is testing the broken-out accumulation zone [1859 - 1816] from top
to bottom. Look for purchases within the medium-term uptrend with the
target at Target Zone 2 [2005.8 - 1994.3].

Sell metal if the traders break out the level of 1818 and consolidate
below.

The gold short-term trend is up. The Intermediary Zone [1857 - 1852] was
broken out last week. Now the target for purchases is Target Zone [1912
- 1902].

On Friday last week, the precious metal's price correction occurred. As
part of the correction, there was an attempt to break out and
consolidate below Additional Zone [1849 - 1847]. The bears did not
succeed. At the close of the US trading session, the price returned to
the support zone.

Today look for short-term purchases according to the pattern to update
the last week's high and reach the Target Zone [1912 - 1902].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Hold up medium-term purchases entered in the zone of [1859.2 - 1816.9]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [2005.8 - 1994.3]. StopLoss: 1830.

  2. Enter short-term buy trades according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1849 - 1847]. TakeProfit: 1874, Target Zone [1912 - 1902]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD pair entered the zone of good sell prices within the
corresponding trend, which can be observed in the medium-term chart.
This area includes prices [1.2146 - 1.2229]. Look for sales according to
the pattern with a target at last week's low + Target Zone 2 [1.1981 -
1.1962].

Let's take a look at the hourly timeframe and smaller margin zones. They
show us that the euro is trading in a short-term uptrend according to
the methodology. There is a contradiction to the medium-term downtrend.

In the chart of a shorter timeframe, the target for buying the euro is
Target Zone [1.2229 - 1.2213]. Today buy at strong supports according to
the pattern. Additional Zone [1.2149 - 1.2145] and Intermediary Zone
[1.2109 - 1.2101] are strong supports.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.2149 - 1.2145]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.2229 - 1.2213]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.2109 - 1.2101]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.2229 - 1.2213]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-25012021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-25012021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus