+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-09-10"
description = "The rich get rich, but what's the price?"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "The rich get rich, but what's the price?"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-09-10

2021-09-10

Fed Presidents caught trading. Review as of 10.08.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The rich get rich, but what's the price?

## Before talking too much, make sure your hands are clean.

Calling to order usually makes the biggest mess in the US. Twelve
regional Feds revealed financial information concerning their presidents
and caused a real sensation: Boston Fed's Eric Rosengren and Dallas
Fed's Robert Kaplan were involved in trading activities in 2020! The
former traded real estate investment trusts and the latter - stocks and
bonds. At the same time, Rosengren is famous for severely criticizing
central-bank purchases of mortgage-backed securities as they "blow up
bubbles in the housing market." Kaplan supported the idea of the Fed's
buying corporate debt, while trading the securities of the funds working
with those assets. Before talking too much, make sure your hands are
clean!

Don’t play against the Fed - that's the principle [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s learn from
the very beginning. What was discussed during the FOMC's meeting used to
be a big secret just a few tens of years ago. Then, we got access to the
FOMC's minutes and transcripts. Based on central-bank presidents'
statements, the market can understand what the Fed thinks about the
current and prospective economic state. And now we found out there are
some people within the Federal Open Market Committee who receive first-
hand information! They attend meetings where crucial market decisions
are made! There are insiders in the world's biggest central bank! How do
you like it!

And [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s believe the Fed is the Messiah who saved the global
economy from recession using a crazy monetary expansion in 2020. It
turns out, very few people want to make the world a better place. Most
people just want to get the best share for themselves. I even dare not
think what might happen if someone from the FOMC insists on aggressively
raising the federal funds rate and starts selling US stocks on the sly.
The rich get rich, but what's the price?

Rosengren and Kaplan's shady dealings affect the whole central bank.
After the financial information was revealed, the Boston and Dallas
Federal Reserve Banks presidents said they would sell their securities
by 30 September and invest the money in diversified indexed funds or
cash savings. They also said they would stop their trading and investing
activities to avoid a conflict of interest even though such activities
were in line with the Fed's ethics. That could be the goal the Fed was
pursuing when starting the investigation.

> \- What's the hardest thing about being a doctor?

>

> \- Guessing what a patient likes the most and then prohibiting that.

Are the insiders in danger? Not really. Eric Rosengren is almost on a
pension **.** Robert Kaplan's authority has been undermined, but he will
hardly voluntarily announce his retirement. They got nervous, for sure,
but we all know the best words we can hear in this world are "Don't do
that anymore!"

Still, they left a bad aftertaste. A clear conscience is a luxury these
days. Even FOMC officials aren't as clean as we could suppose.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )