+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-13"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 13.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 13.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=26.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 13, 2020

August 13, 2020

EUR/USD forecast: Dollar bets on redDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental U.S. dollar forecast for today

### USD bulls do not have enough power for a counter-attack

Dollar’s success didn’t last long! The [EUR/USD][1] bears couldn’t
develop a correction. Did they really have any chances? The [S&P 500][2]
marks the second record high ever, republicans and democrats are far
from reaching an agreement on the extension of the financial aid
package, the Fed’s officials suggest that the euro-area economy is
recovering faster than the U.S. growth. The [strategy][3] of trading the
price rebound from the support zone of [1.172-1.173][4] has worked out
already twice in August. The euro bulls seem to be willing to go ahead.

The U.S. stock indexes are about to hit new all-time highs supported by
the U.S. economic data are positive and the safety cushion of the huge
volume of liquidity provided by the Fed. The higher rises the [S&P
500][2], the more experts suggest a correction, but it doesn’t occur.
The bears warn about the US-China trade war escalation, the
deterioration of the US economic data. But the U.S. stock indices are
still growing. Yes, according to Bloomberg research, if China were on a
straight-line track to hit its target, exports from the U.S. of goods
listed under the agreement would have hit $71 billion over the first
half of the year. They are now at $33.1 billion.

### Dynamics of U.S. exports

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 13.08.2020][5]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

In my opinion, the White House isn’t interested in the trade war because
of the high risks of the U.S. stock indexes drawdown, the stock indexes
are now one of the few Trump’s benefits in the upcoming presidential
election. The U.S. administration is now concerned with other problems.
For example, Republicans want to find a compromise with Democrats who do
not agree with less than $ 2 trillion in fiscal stimulus. The U.S.
president says their demands are ridiculous, but nevertheless, the U.S.
management doesn’t seem to be effective. In addition to the growth gap,
it is a good reason to buy the [EUR/USD][1]. The latter idea seemed to
work out already. However, the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston President
Eric Rosengren openly says that EU success in fight with COVID-19
results in the leading performance of the euro-area GDP over the U.S.,
so it is still relevant.

The former euro’s growth drivers still work, while the dollar is losing
support from the U.S. Treasuries. The rise in the Treasury yield results
from the redistribution of assets by investment portfolio managers who,
on the eve of auctions, sold securities on the secondary market. Primary
placements ended, and the long positions were closed. Furthermore, Italy
will sell 30-year debt at auction, it offers yields almost twice as much
as peers in Spain and Portugal. The growth of the euro-area debt market
rates is also a positive factor for the [EUR/USD][6]

### Dynamics of euro-area bond yields

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 13.08.2020][7]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Therefore, the market is rather bullish on the EUR/USD, buying the pair
above 1.17. Investors expect the rally to continue towards 1.25 in 2021
unless any serious shocks suggest the middle-term consolidation. If the
[EUR/USD][1] breaks out the resistance at 1.188, the bulls will go
ahead.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][8]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][9] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![EUR/USD forecast: Dollar bets on red][10]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/ru/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/eurusd-forecast-poor-management-will-kill-dollar/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/eurusd-forecast-dollar-avoids-responsibility/
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/trade-war-13-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=4c74752e07fa5df25f06dc4fc4564ec5
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/euro-bonds-13-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=dab13edb322b0c077c1dc7f24c6118d2
   8. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-dollar-bets-on-red&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-dollar-bets-on-red&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-13-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=c42a4c9758bc9ddf23971968c85c403e