+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-13"
description = "GBP/USD forecast for 13.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "GBP/USD forecast for 13.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=26.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 13, 2020

August 13, 2020

GBP/USD forecast: Pound caught tailwindsDmitri Demidenko

##  **Fundamental Pound forecast for today**

### The GBP/USD rally results from the U.S. dollar weakness

Unsinkable. That is how I can describe the pound, which didn’t crash
even amid the worst GDP drop and the strongest decline in unemployment
since the previous economic crisis. After all, there is not any storm in
the Forex market, is it? The sterling may just follow the trend based on
the massive selloffs of the U.S. dollar. According to Societe Generale,
the [GBP/USD][1] rally results from the greenback’s weakness, rather
than from the UK economic data, which are rather weak. I must agree.

In the second quarter, the UK GDP contracted by 20.4%, which, compared
to the USA (-10%), Germany (-10%), Italy (-12%), France (-14%), and
Spain (-19%), looks like a real disaster. Partially, such serious
economic losses resulted from the time factor. The UK economy was locked
down on March 23, a week before most European countries, and reopened a
few weeks later than the others.

### Losses in GDP in the second quarter

### ![LiteForex: GBP/USD forecast for 13.08.2020][2]



 _Source: Wall Street Journal_

In June, the UK economy grew by 8.7% M-o-M, which means it was 11.3%
from the lows recorded in March. However, the current GDP is 17.2% than
the pre-crisis levels, and the further recovery, according to the Bank
of England, will depend on the employment. UK employment shrank by
220,000 during the lockdown, but the unemployment rate remained at 3.9%
in the April-June period, which can be explained by state support. Rishi
Sunak spent about £35 billion for this purpose, which saved about 9.5
million jobs. However, the financial aid program expires in October, and
Boris Johnson’s government will face a serious dilemma.

If the fiscal stimulus is not extended, the unemployment rate will surge
holding back the economic recovery. Besides, the U.K. government debt
will increase, and the firms will have more symptoms associated with
“zombies”. According to Prospect Magazine, the first option is more
beneficial, as job destruction and job creation is a necessary part of a
dynamic economy.

### Dynamics of UK government debt

![LiteForex: GBP/USD forecast for 13.08.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

In my opinion, the [GBP/USD][1] remains stable amid the UK poor domestic
data because [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s expected the worst. The recession is deep, but
the pound’s future will depend on how fast the UK economy is recovering.
Extra problems can be created by Brexit, but the talks about the
progress in the UK-US trade negotiations ease the negative.

The market is tending to sell the greenback amid its weakness.
Republicans and Democrats may not reach an agreement on the fiscal
stimulus until September. Besides, the weak economic data resulted from
the surge in COVID-19 cases in the middle of summer will sooner or later
press the USD down. As a result, the [GBP/USD][1] bulls can be supported
by too grim forecasts for the UK economy. Any positive signs in the UK
economic data will allow to add up to the GBP purchases [opened at level
1.302][4] at the breakouts of the resistances at 1.3135 and 1.319.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

![GBP/USD forecast: Pound caught tailwinds][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/economics-13-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=7ac709953ee8928744c7021b67481232
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/debt-uk-13-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=23608a376072c54826657a1eeb5d36be
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/gbpusd-forecast-pound-lands-experts-in-the-soup/
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gbpusd-forecast-pound-caught-tailwinds&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gbpusd-forecast-pound-caught-tailwinds&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-gbpusd-13-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=e7287981f31559dc83dce839a89067d7