+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-28"
description = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week December 28 - January 01 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week December 28 - January 01 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-28

2020-12-28

Medium-term forecast for five cryptocurrencies as of 28.12.2020Roman
Onegin

I welcome my readers!

I have prepared a medium-term cryptocurrency forecast based on Elliott
wave analysis of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS, and Ripple. I offer
trading signals for each cryptocurrency pair.

During this week, the cryptocurrency market should be rising.

The article covers the following subjects:

##  **Elliott wave Bitcoin analysis**

 ****

The BTCUSD market is forming a large bullish impulse, with four legs
completed inside. The corrective wave 4 completed in February 2020. This
correction is a double zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]. Next, the cryptocurrency pair
started rising in the upward impulse wave 5 that is composed of five
sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5]. Let us analyze the final section of wave
5 in the eight-hour timeframe.

The impulse wave 5 has completed its four elements out of five. The
price is rising in the final impulse [5] that is also composed of five
sub-waves (1)-(2)-(3)-(4)-(5). The bearish corrective wave 4 should end
this week. Next, wave 5 could conclude wave (5) at a level of about
29500.00. Under the current conditions, one could enter long trades with
a target to take the profit at the end of the entire bullish trend.

### Trading plan for [BTCUSD][1] for the week:

Buy 27099.00, TP 29500.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ethereum analysis**

 ****

The ETHUSD market is forming a large upward zigzag A-B-C. The bearish
corrective wave B must have completed as a triple zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. Next, the price has started rising in the upward
impulse wave C that is composed of five sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5].
The first four elements of this impulse should be complete, and the
final sub-wave [5] is still forming. Let us study its structure in a
shorter timeframe.

In the impulse wave [5], the sub-waves (1)-(2) have completed. The
market is now forming the middle part of this impulse wave, the sub-wave
(3). Over the next few days, the price should be rising to a level of
880.00, thus breaking through the previous high made by the linking wave
[X]. Next, the price could turn down and start declining in the
corrective wave (4), as it is outlined in the chart. One could enter
purchases under the current conditions.

### Trading plan **[ETHUSD][2] **for the week:

Buy 727.67, TP 880.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Litecoin analysis**

 ****

The LTCUSD market is forming an upward trend as a zigzag A-B-C. The
impulse wave A is complete. The corrective wave B has also completed as
a triple zigzag. There is forming the bullish impulse composed of five
sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5]. Let us see the most recent chart section
in more detail in the H8 timeframe.

The most recent chart section shows that the impulse wave [1] and the
bearish correction [2] have ended. The price is now rising in the
impulse wave [3], namely, in the final wave 5 of (5). The market should
be rising to a level of 145.00. Next, the cryptocurrency pair should
turn down and start declining in wave [4].

### Trading plan for **[LTCUSD][3]**  for the week:

Buy 131.58, TP 145.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave EOS analysis**

 ****

The EOSUSD [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) chart shows the structure of the global downward triple
zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. In the most recent chart section, there is
developing the second linking wave [X] as a bullish triple zigzag
(w)-(x)-(y)-(xx)-(z). Most likely, the linking wave (xx) has completed
as a double zigzag w-x-y. The initial element of the motive sub-wave (z)
is currently unfolding. Let us see its structure in more detail in the
shorter timeframe.

After the final impulse [c] of y concluded the linking wave (xx), the
(z) has started forming. The (z) wave should complete as a simple zigzag
a-b-c. The price should be rising in impulse a. Next, it cold roll down
a little in the corrective wave b. An approximate trajectory of the EOS
future price movement is outlined in the chart. The entire wave (z)
could complete its pattern a little higher than the previous high at
4.11 made by wave x.

### Trading plan for **[EOSUSD][4]**  for the week:

Buy 2.75, TP 4.11

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ripple analysis**

 ****

The market continues forming the corrective wave of a larger degree.
There is forming the bearish triple zigzag composed of five motive sub-
waves [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The second linking wave [X] must have
completed recently. There is now forming the final motive wave [Z],
which should end as a double zigzag, like waves [W] and [Y]. Let us
explore the chart structure in more detail in the H8 timeframe.

After the second upward linking wave [X] ended, the sub-wave (W), the
initial element of the double zigzag, has started forming. Wave (W) is
likely to complete as a simple zigzag A-B-C. There is now forming the
corrective wave [4] of the down impulse C. Wave [4] is likely a double
zigzag, which should end at a level of around 0.386, the previous high.
Next, the price should continue declining in the wave [5].

### Trading plan for **[XRPUSD][5]** for the week:

Buy 0.280, TP 0.386

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-28122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-28122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus