+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-28"
description = "Gold price forecast 28 December 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Gold price forecast 28 December 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-28

2020-12-28

Gold got hooked on steroids. Forecast as of 28.12.2020Dmitri Demidenko

Only the blue wave will allow gold to return its price above $2000 per
ounce. In all other cases, the previously set record can remain so for
many years. Let us discuss this topic and make up a gold trading plan.

## Six-month gold fundamental analysis

To see the future, you need to look back at the past. Gold is ready to
demonstrate the best annual growth since 2010. Stimuli have been the
main driver of the [XAUUSD][1] rally. In response to the recession
caused by the pandemic, the US Congress and the Federal Reserve spared
no expense, and most importantly, they acted quickly and decisively. As
a result, in August, the precious metal managed to reach an all-time
high of $2075 per ounce. In October, gold rallied in the hope of the
blue wave. Finally, $892 billion fiscal stimulus endorsed by Congress
and Donald Trump pushed gold up to the 6-week high. Can it count on the
old trump cards in 2021?

### Gold dynamics

 _Source: Bloomberg._

I strongly doubt that next year the Federal Reserve is going to
demonstrate a tenth of the madness that has become the Fed's calling
card in the spring of 2020. Indeed, the FOMC's December forecasts
suggest that the regulator is not going to raise the rate in 2021-2023.
However, it is quite possible that it was just overreacting. If
inflation expectations rise sharply due to oil, the blue wave, and the
booming US economic recovery, the Fed's outlook will definitely change.
The hawkish rhetoric and the earlier start of monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)
normalization will lead to the dollar strengthening. However, I don't
think this will happen before the second half of 2021.

In the period from January to June, financial markets will be dominated
by the topics of defeating the pandemic, global economic recovery, and
fiscal stimulus. The first two of them are likely to support the bears
on the USD index. This is good [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) for the precious metal, but in
reality, the gold trend will depend on the US Congress. Even more
precisely, it will be determined by American voters. In January, they
are going to decide who will get two seats in the Senate. If the
Democrats win, the blue wave will become a reality, an $892 billion
fiscal stimulus will mark the beginning, and a reflationary environment
will become very possible.

On the contrary, the Republican victory would split Congress, make it
harder for Joe Biden to push his ideas through lawmakers, and the
[XAUUSD][1] upward movement will lose momentum. In the first case, gold
will have the opportunity to return above $2000 per ounce. In the
second, it risks entering the zone of mid-term consolidation of
$1750-1950.

These scenarios are based on the weakness of the greenback in the first
half of 2021. However, unexpected circumstances can lead to increased
uncertainty and return the demand for safe-havens. As a result, the
dollar will start to recover earlier than expected. This option is
supported by the EURUSD reaction to the US presidential elections. Since
2000, the main currency pair has consistently peaked for one to three
months after the vote, after which the prices began to fall.

### [EURUSD][2] reaction to the US presidential election

 _Source: Nordea Markets._

### Six-month ****gold trading plan

In my opinion, there is a 60% probability of a divided Congress and a
consolidation of gold in the range of $1750-1950 per ounce during the
first half of 2021. I give the 30% chances of the blue wave and the rise
of a precious metal’s price above $2000. There is a 10% probability of
the premature strengthening of the US dollar, which will initiate the
bear trend in [XAUUSD][1].



## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.lite.forex/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true