+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-19"
description = "Australian Dollar price forecast 19 January 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Australian Dollar price forecast 19 January 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=26.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-19

2021-01-19

Cunning Aussie. Forecast as of 19.01.2021Dmitri Demidenko

By 2028, the American economy will be bypassed by China. This fact and
the PRC's insatiable demand for iron ore will favor the [AUUSD][1] bulls
for many years to come. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a
trading plan.

## Fundamental Australian Dollar forecast for six months

Vaccine, incentives, and China are the recipe for a nearly 42% rally in
[AUDUSD][1] from March lows to January highs. Looking at the astonishing
rise of the Australian dollar, one may begin to doubt its continuation.
But what if none of the [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s will no longer buy, global risk
appetite will stop growing so fast? Will Joe Biden's inauguration be a
signal for profit-taking on US stock indices? Will China's GDP
accelerate in 2021? Finally, can vaccine continue to push the [S&P
500][2] up?

Investors cannot expect the same scale of monetary and fiscal stimulus
as in 2020. At best, the Fed will continue to buy assets for $120
billion a month until the end of the year, and the factor of Joe Biden's
$1.9 trillion aid package is already included in the prices of US stock
indices. According to Nordea Markets, the number of positive [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) about
vaccines has approached its extreme value and will no longer provide the
previous support for the [S&P 500][2]. At least for a while. This is
fraught with increased turbulence in the stock market and the
strengthening of the greenback.

### [S&P 500][2] and virus/vaccines [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) dynamics



 _Source: Nordea Markets._

Will China's GDP Accelerate in 2021? The World Bank thinks so. According
to its forecasts, China's economy will expand by 8% this year and exceed
the 2019 level by 10%. Beijing's voracious demand for steel is fueling
the rise in iron ore futures, which is a crucial component of Australian
exports even as the US dollar strengthens. At the same time, in 2020,
China fulfilled only 52% of its obligations to purchase US goods. If Joe
Biden touches on this topic during the inauguration, the yuan's fall
will create problems for the [AUDUSD][1] bulls.

Let's not forget about the potential expansion of the US Treasury bond
issue due to the need to finance $1.9 trillion in fiscal stimulus. This
action could provoke further growth in treasury yields and a correction
of dollar pairs on Forex.

Thus, in the short term, the Australian dollar has a lot of risks.
Nevertheless, in the medium and long term investment, it will probably
be able to recoup. History shows that crises worked in China's favor. In
2001, when Beijing joined the WTO, its economy was only 13% of America's
size. In 2009 this figure increased to 35%, in 2020 to 71%. By 2028, the
American economy will be bypassed by China. Growth in its GDP and Aussie
neutral positioning serves as bullish factors for [AUDUSD][1].

### Speculative positioning in major currencies



 _Source: Nordea Markets._

### [AUDUSD][1] trading plan for six months

In my opinion, the acceleration of the vaccination process and the more
vigorous growth of the global economy than currently expected will help
restore the uptrend in emerging markets' currencies and the Australian
dollar. However, the [AUDUSD][1] correction may continue shortly. So
much, the better. The fall of the AUDUSD pair to the supports at 0.763
and 0.759 will make it possible to buy the Australian dollar at a lower
price. It is still relevant to open AUDUSD long positions on the price
rise with the targets at 0.79 and 0.82.







## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true