+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-19"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (19 January 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (19 January 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=26.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-19

2021-01-19

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 19.01.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Euro broke out key support of medium-term uptrend

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil is trying to consolidate below the local low of last week at 52.27
in the medium-term chart. If the bears succeed, then a pattern to work
in correction with the target at the trend key support [49.39 - 48.94]
will be formed.

The short-term impulse is up. Now the price is trading in the
correction. The target of the correction is the Intermediary Zone test
[51.66 - 51.43]. After the IZ test, look at the traders' reaction. If a
buy pattern forms, then buy oil with a target at the January 13's high.

While the corrective model is developing, look for short trades with the
target in the Intermediary Zone [51.66 - 51.43]. Additional Zone [53.04
- 52.93] is the nearest resistance to enter sell trades.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [53.04 - 52.93]. TakeProfit: 51.84, Intermediary Zone [51.66 - 51.43]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [51.66 - 51.43]. TakeProfit: 53.88. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold price continues to trade in the accumulation zone [1859 - 1816].
The medium-term trend is up, according to the margin zones.

For a buy signal to appear, the resistance of 1859 should be broken out.
To form a sell signal, the price should be fixed below the level of
1816.

The gold local trend is down. After last Friday's sharp drop, the price
is currently trading in the correction with the target in the
Intermediary Zone test [1857 - 1852].

After the resistance test, focus on finding a sell pattern. If it is
formed, sell the precious metal with the target at yesterday's low.

If the price breaks out Intermediary Zone and consolidates above at the
US session, the short-term trend will reverse up. In this case, enter
gold purchases with a target at the upper Target Zone [1912 - 1902]
starting from the next trading day.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Open medium-term buy positions according to the pattern [1859.2 -
1816.9]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [2005.8 - 1994.3]. StopLoss:
according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Euro broke out key support of medium-term uptrend. Therefore, the trend
has reversed down. Look for sales with the target at the lower Target
Zone 2 [1.1981 - 1.1962]. The border of the new trend moves to the zone
of [1.2229 - 1.2213].

Let's take a look at the short-term trend in the EURUSD pair. It is
down. Now the price is in correction and is testing the strong
resistance of Additional Zone [1.2097 - 1.2093]. Enter sales according
to the pattern in the resistance with the target at yesterday's low.

The second zone to enter sell trades is the trend border [1.2141 -
1.2133].

There are no signals to buy the euro according to the methodology.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.2097 - 1.2093]. TakeProfit: 1.2055. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.2141 - 1.2133]. TakeProfit: 1.2055. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-19012021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-19012021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus