+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-26"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (26 February 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (26 February 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-26

2021-02-26

Short-term analysis for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 26.02.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

TZ 6 [64.92 - 64.41] remains a potential target for oil purchases, but
in an overbought market, it could make sense to sell oil in the
correction. Wait for the entry point.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

After breaking out Target Zone 5, traders tried to reach Target Zone 6
[64.92 - 64.41]. At the moment, the price is trading at level 62.75. TZ
6 remains a potential target, but in an overbought market, oil should be
considered for sale in a correction. A pattern is required.

If the price returns below the level of 62.75, it is possible to
consider a short trade with a target at the key support [59.18 - 58.73].

The short-term trend is up. Within the trend, the traders reached the
Target Zone [63.54 - 63.09]. It was not possible to break out the
resistance.

Now the price is trading in correction and testing Additional Zone
[62.57 - 62.44]. Yesterday there was a test, which led to an increase in
the rate, but the traders held the high of the European trading session.

If the bears manage to break out AZ today, the price will go to the
correction in the Intermediary Zone [61.44 - 61.22]. This will be an
opportunity for us to enter a sell trade.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

Sell when the Additional Zone [62.57 - 62.44] is broken out. TakeProfit:
Intermediary Zone [61.44 - 61.22]. StopLoss: 63.25.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold price continues to fall. The trend remains down. This week, the
price reached Target Zone 2 [1759 - 1749].

Within the short-term trend, the traders have worked out the XAUUSD
bearish trend. As a result, the Target Zone [1775 - 1765] was reached,
and the February low was updated.

Further price fall will be possible if traders let the price slip below
the Target Zone. In this case, the target will be the Gold Zone [1720 -
1715].

The nearest resistance level, which is worth paying attention to when
looking for new sales, is located at levels [1788 - 1785].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1788 - 1785].
TakeProfit: 1758. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro medium-term trend reversed up. Now the target for purchases is
Target Zone 2 [1.2288 - 1.2272].

Yesterday, there was an attempt to break out the resistance, Target Zone
[1.2200 - 1.2183], but the traders returned the price below the level at
the US trading session. The US trading session closed at level 1.2163.

Also, yesterday, traders tested the key support of the short-term
uptrend [1.2162 - 1.2154]. While the zone is held, there is no traders'
reaction.

There is a possibility of a breakout of support and a short-term trend
reversal. In this case, the EURUSD rate will move to the levels of
1.2109 - 1.2066.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell in Intermediary Zone [1.2162 - 1.2154]. TakeProfit: 1.2109.  StopLoss: 1.2184.

  2. Buy when the level of 1.2184 is broken out. TakeProfit: Gold Zone [1.2271 - 1.2263]. StopLoss: 1.2149.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-26022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-26022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus