+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-07"
description = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week December 7-11 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week December 7-11 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-07

2020-12-07

Medium-term forecast for five cryptocurrencies as of 07.12.2020Roman
Onegin

I welcome my readers!

I have prepared a medium-term cryptocurrency forecast based on Elliott
wave analysis of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS, and Ripple. I offer
trading signals for each cryptocurrency pair.

This week, the cryptocurrencies should be rising in the final legs of
bullish impulses.

The article covers the following subjects:

##  **Elliott wave Bitcoin analysis**

 ****

The BTCUSD market is forming corrective wave 4 as a double zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]. There is forming the linking wave [X] as a double
combination of zigzags, where waves (W) and (Y) are standard zigzag-
shaped waves, and the linking wave (X) is a bearish double zigzag. Wave
(Y) has not yet completed. Let us see its structure in more detail in
the shorter timeframe.

Wave (Y) is composed of three major sub-waves A-B-C. After the sideways
correction B has ended as a triangle, the market has started rising in
the impulse wave C. The first four legs of wave C must have completed,
and the final wave [5] is still forming. This week, the Bitcoin price
should be rising to a level of 20500.00, which is above the previous
high made by impulse 3.

### Trading plan for [BTCUSD][1] for the week:

Buy 19349.50, TP 20500.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ethereum analysis**

 ****

In the double zigzag of a larger degree, there is forming the upward
linking wave [X]. The [X] wave is forming as a double zigzag
(W)-(X)-(Y), where the first two legs have completed, and the final wave
(Y) is still forming. There have finished the bullish impulse A and the
bearish correction B. The C wave is also an impulse, which should end
soon. Let us see the structure of the most recent section of the chart
in the eight-hour timeframe.

The impulse wave C is composed of five sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5].
The bearish corrective wave [4] has completed, and the price has started
rising in wave [5]. The Ethereum price should be rising to a level of
665.00. Next, the market will turn down and start a new downtrend. One
could enter long trades in the current situation.

### Trading plan **[ETHUSD][2] **for the week:

Buy 597.79, TP 665.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Litecoin analysis**

 ****

The LTCUSD market is forming the large bearish triple zigzag, with the
corrective linking wave [X] forming inside. This wave is a double zigzag
composed of the sub-waves (W)-(X)-(Y). There is forming the final leg of
this pattern. Let us study the price chart in more detail in the eight-
hour timeframe.

The eight-hour timeframe displays the (Y) wave, which is a part of the
linking wave [X]. The (Y) wave is a double zigzag W-X-Y, where the Y
wave is unfolding. This week, the market should be rising in the bullish
impulse (5), so one could enter long positions. The impulse wave (5)
should conclude the entire bullish impulse [a]. Next, the bearish
correction [b] should start unfolding as it is outlined in the chart.

### Trading plan for **[LTCUSD][3]**  for the week:

Buy 84.42, TP 105.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave EOS analysis**

 ****

The EOSUSD market is forming the global corrective wave B as a triple
combination. There have completed the sub-waves [W]-[X]-[Y]. The market
is forming the upward linking wave [X] as a triple zigzag
(w)-(x)-(y)-(xx)-(z). The final wave (z) should complete the zigzag. Let
us see its structure in more detail in the eight-hour timeframe.

The final motive wave (Z) of the triple zigzag is developing as a
standard zigzag A-B-C. The price rose in the bullish impulse A; next, it
dropped in the corrective wave B, which has already completed. The
market should start rising in the new bullish impulse wave C. The market
should grow to a level of 3.91. This is the previous high made by wave
(Y). It is relevant to enter long trades in the current situation.

### Trading plan for **[EOSUSD][4]**  for the week

Buy 2.98, TP 3.91

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ripple analysis**

 ****

The XRPUSD market is forming a corrective pattern. This correction is
unfolding as a triple zigzag, it is composed of the three sub-waves
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The bearish sub-wave [Y] completed not long ago.
Next, the price has started rising in the linking wave [X]. The short
correction [4] should end soon. Next, the market will resume rising in
wave [5] towards a level of 0.795.

In the eight-hour timeframe, the impulse C of (Y) is forming. Corrective
wave [4] is currently forming as a contracting triangle. The wave (d)
should end soon. Next, after a decline wave (e), the entire wave [4]
should end at a level of around 0.795. One could enter long positions
with a target at 0.795.

### Trading plan for **[XRPUSD][5]** for the week:

Buy 0.616, TP 0.795

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-07122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-07122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus