+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-07"
description = "Euro price forecast 7 December 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 7 December 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-07

2020-12-07

Euro strikes while the iron is hot. Forecast as of 07.12.2020Dmitri
Demidenko

It is unlikely that in the next 10 years, there should be the same sharp
decline in the value of money to zero. So, the [S&P 500][1] rally won’t
repeat soon. We should take advantage of the opportunities. Let us
discuss the Forex outlook and make up a EURUSD trading plan.

##  **Weekly euro fundamental forecast**

As long as economic shocks cause turmoil in the financial markets, the
weak US jobs reports will support the growth of stock indexes, and the
expectations for the ECB monetary easing will strengthen the euro.
Investors are hurrying up to join the uptrend, and the reason is not in
the failure of fundamental analysis. The [S&P 500][1] rally doesn’t
result from the good economic performance or strong corporate profits;
the reason is in a sharp decline in the value of money to almost zero.
It isn't easy to imagine that something like this will happen again in
the next decade. So, the US stocks will hardly surge so high again soon.
Investors are taking the chance.

The US nonfarm payrolls report has been the weakest over the past seven
months (+245,000), which suggests the US Congress should adopt a new
fiscal stimulus package. Under such conditions, the [S&P 500][1] hits a
fresh all-time high, and the [EURUSD][2] continues growing. Both parties
suggested the US weak jobs report as a reason for swift and decisive
action to provide the economy with the necessary assistance. Chicago
Federal Reserve Bank President Charles Evans notes that, despite the US
weak employment data, he won’t support the Fed’s additional monetary
expansion since the central bank's instruments are less effective than
Congress's fiscal stimulus. The US economy needs stimulus urgently.

The [S&P 500][1] rally is pressing down the US dollar; the USD has
closed in the red for the third consecutive week hitting the lowest
level since April 2018. The greenback’s rivals are hitting fresh record
highs, however. The ECB, being concerned with the deflation, would not
like the euro to continues strengthening. However, the potential
extension of monetary stimulus does not discourage the [EURUSD][2]
bulls. However, we should remember that the euro rally results from the
dollar weakness rather than the euro strength.

###  **Dynamics of world’s major currencies**



 _Source_ _: Financial Times_

Obviously, if the reasons for the rise in stock indices are to be found
in a sharp decline in the value of money to zero and vaccines, then
without the normalization of the Fed's monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) and problems with
vaccinations, the S&P 500 should not start a deep correction. The
Federal Reserve will not resort to monetary restriction until at least
2022-2023, so the bears on stocks and [EURUSD][2] should bet on delays
in vaccination processes or their rejection by the population. Vaccines
are good for the world but bad for the US dollar.

###  **Weekly[EURUSD][2] trading plan**

In the current situation, the ECB will hardly stop the euro rally. The
[EURUSD][2] price already includes the possible QE expansion by €500
billion and the asset purchase program's extension for another six
months at the ECB December meeting. According to the source familiar
with the matter, Bloomberg suggests the QE should be extended for
another twelve months. If the information is confirmed, the [EURUSD][2]
short-term correction could send the pair down below the supports at
1.212 and 1.208, which should be bought out. I suggest entering long
trades at the price fall.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true