+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-07"
description = "Forecast for yen price for 7 December 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for yen price for 7 December 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-07

2020-12-07

Euro leaves the yen behind. Forecast as of 07.12.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The growth of the global risk appetite pressed down the US dollar and
all safe-havens, including the yen. The euro buyers remember old
advantages, and the euro is ahead of the main rivals. How will the ECB
react? Let us discuss this question and make up the [EURJPY][1] trading
plan.

## Weekly yen fundamental analysis

It is pleasant when the forecasts for three months come true after two
or three weeks. The [EURJPY][1] pair has reached the target at 126.4,
which I indicated in [late November][2], amid the increase in global
risk appetite and aggressive sell-offs of safe-havens and funding
currencies. High demand for emerging markets’ assets encourages carry
traders. However, the euro is growing faster than the EM currencies,
which looks surprising at first. The risks of a double-dip recession are
high; the ECB expresses discontent with the regional currency
strengthening, it will try to set the uptrend back.

Both in technical and fundamental analysis, there are patterns widely
used by traders. A decline in the coronavirus cases in Europe, hopes for
rapid economic recovery after the lockdown, and the change in the EU
stance, which previously focused on fiscal consolidation, and is now
ready to spend the money, became the main drivers of the [EURUSD][3] and
[EURJPY][1] rallies in June-August. The current situation is similar,
and [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are afraid of missing out.

### Dynamics of COVID-19 cases in Europe and USA

 _Source_ _: Nordea markets_

If in the spring the idea of ​​the € 750 billion Rescue Fund and the
related issue of EU common bonds was shocking and made it possible to
talk about a worthy alternative to Treasuries, now at the EU summit on
December 10-11, the issue of the viability of this project will be
decided. Hungary and Poland are opposed, but Brussels has a plan B. If
Budapest and Warsaw do not want to participate in the program, they can
do without them. According to the President of the European Commission,
Ursula von der Leyen, it is the money that the EU borrows from future
generations and wants to use not only for recovery but also for building
a strong economy. More digital, more green, more livable.

Europe is turning into a spender because of the pandemic, which is
confirmed by the words of Angela Merkel that Germany was able to invest
large sums in 2020 and will be able to do so in 2021, as it has
successfully managed funds in recent years. The Chancellor noted the
country's lowest debt in the G7. The fiscal stimulus is a powerful
driver of economic growth, the divergence in which played into the hands
of the [EURJPY][1] bulls in July-August and will do so in the first half
of 2021. Another thing is that the euro is really growing too fast, and
not only against the US dollar but also against other currencies, which
the ECB may not like.

### Dynamics of EURUSD and trade-weighted EUR

 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

### Weekly [EURJPY][1] trading plan

I believe Christine Lagarde and other ECB governors could slow down the
[EURJPY][1] uptrend, but the ECB can’t turn it down. It is still
relevant to buy the euro against the yen on the price fall and hold the
trades up to the target at 128.5[ indicated earlier][2]. Yen is weak now
due to the general weakness of safe-haven assets due to the increased
demand for carry trades and capital repatriation by Japanese [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s.
The [Nikkei 225][4] seems less likely to drop than the [S&P 500][5],
since two whales in the Japanese stock market, BoJ, and GPIF, appeared
due to [ETF](https://www.fixpro.org/post/etf-liquidity/)s' purchases by the Bank of Japan.



## Price chart of EURJPY in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURJPY&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/yen-loses-the-firm-ground-forecast-as-of-24112020/
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NI225&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true