+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-07"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (7 December 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (7 December 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=18.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-07

2020-12-07

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 07.12.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

Starting from today, there are new margin requirements for CME Group
Gold futures.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

On Monday morning, the medium-term oil uptrend continues, the target is
at Target Zone 3 49.32 - 48.81]. The price is trading around the highs,
so we should expect a correction to buy oil at good prices.

The next support levels are at the trendline, marked with the pink line
in the chart, and level [44.16 — 43.77].

The short-term oil trend is also up. The upside target is Gold Zone
[47.38 – 47.14]. Last Friday, traders were testing the support level of
[45.78 – 45.47]. They didn’t break out the zone. Today or tomorrow, I
expect the price to continue rising and reach the target.

An alternative scenario to sell oil. The price breaks out Additional
Zone [45.38 – 45.26] and consolidates below. In this case, there will be
a deep correction down to Intermediary Zone [44.19 — 43.95].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy at the trendline. TakeProfit: Gold Zone [47.38 - 47.14]. StopLoss:
45.30.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Starting from today, there are new margin requirements for CME Group
Gold futures. We should draw new margin zones from the new extremes in
the chart according to the new margin requirements. We should not
rearrange the former margin zones.

The medium-term gold trend is down. The downside target is Target Zone 3
[1736.4 – 1727.1]. The price is now being corrected and approaching the
resistance zone [1850 – 1890]. I recommend considering sell trades in
the resistance.

Let us analyze the short-term timeframe. Last week, the gold buyers
broke out Intermediary Zone [1827.5 – 1821.8], and the short-term trend
turned up.

This week, it is relevant to buy gold with the target at the upper
Target Zone [1890.8 – 1879.3]. I recommend buying gold on the correction
according to the false breakout pattern that has already emerged. The
best prices to buy will be in the zone of [1805.3 – 1800.3]. The
intermediate target is at the high of last week providing the correction
starts from the current prices.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the false breakout pattern in the zone of [1805.3 -
1800.3]. TakeProfit: 1847.8.  StopLoss: 1795.0.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Last week, the EURUSD uptrend continued in the medium-term. The price
broke out Target Zone 2 [1.2032 – 1.2012]. The next upside target is
Target Zone 3 [1.2232 – 1.2212].

To buy the euro in the trend we should expect a correction. The best
price to buy the euro, according to the methodology, are in Target Zone
[1.1993 — 1.1975].

Let us analyze the short-term timeframe. Last Thursday, the price broke
out Gold Zone [1.2105 – 1.2093]. On Friday, the traders tried to reach
the next upside target Target Zone 2 [1.2232 – 1.2209], but they failed.
The large purchases are being exited and the price is being corrected.

Bears, following the correction down in the short-term uptrend, are
trying to break out the local support zone Additional Zone [1.2131 –
1.2127]. If the price breaks out the zone, the market will reach
Intermediary Zone [1.2085 – 1.2076]. The short-term trend will be
determined in IZ.

Today, I recommend looking for the patterns to buy in AZ (if the zone is
held up by buyers) and in IZ.

As for sell trades, it is relevant to sell at level 1.2138. A stop loss
is at 1.2155. The take profit is in Intermediary Zone. Note that sell
trades are within the correction.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell in the zone of [1.2144 - 1.2127]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1.2085 - 1.2076]. StopLoss: 1.2155.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.2085 - 1.2076]. TakeProfit: 1.2177. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-07122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-07122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus