+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-30"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (30 September 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (30 September 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-30

2020-09-30

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 30.09.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The EURUSD has corrected up to the resistance level 1.1752. I suggest
entering sell trades according to the pattern at the level with the
target at the low of last week. The second zone to enter sell trades is
the trend key resistance [1.1832 — 1.1812].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil is trading in the medium-term uptrend. Some time ago, the price
tested the trend key support [37.34 – 36.72]. Next, the buyers reacted
to the zone test. The price was growing. The oil price has stopped
rising in the resistance zone Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92].

The traders opened new shorts in TZ5. The price broke through the low of
last week yesterday. The price could retest Target Zone [37.34 - 36.72],
which could be followed by the trend reversal.

Let us study the short-term chart. It is clear that traders couldn’t
form a buy pattern yesterday via the breakout of level 40.51. Instead,
the price dropped and broke out the support at 39.50.

Sellers are now testing the key support of the short-term uptrend [38.72
– 38.45]. Until the zone is broken out, it is too early to sell oil. We
shall sell oil when traders close the US session below level 38.45. If
so, the target will be the lower Target Zone [35.97 — 35.42].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [39.77 - 39.63].
TakeProfit: 38.29. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold is being corrected up in the middle-term downtrend. The likely
correction target is to test Target Zone [1922.4 – 1913.1], broken out
earlier. After the zone test, I suggest looking for sell signals.

The local trend, despite the price rise yesterday, is still down. The
gold price reached the trend key resistance [1900.1 – 1895.4] yesterday.
Today, I suggest looking for sell signals. The sell target will be to
break through the low of last week.

Alternative scenario: The price breaks out Intermediary Zone [1900.1 -
1895.4] and closes above at the US session. If so, the short-term gold
trend will turn up. The buy target will be the upper Target Zone [1951.0
— 1941.7].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1900.1 - 1895.4].
TakeProfit: Gold Zone [1852.9 - 1848.2]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro has been corrected up to the resistance level of 1.1752. I
recommend entering sell trades at the level according to the pattern
with the target at the low of last week. The second zone to enter short
trades is the trend key resistance [1.1832 — 1.1812].

Now, let us switch to a shorter timeframe and see the short-term trend.

Yesterday, buyers broke out the resistance Intermediary Zone [1.1722 -
1.1712], the sell pattern didn’t appear. Therefore, the short-term trend
has turned up. The buy target is the upper Target Zone [1.1832 –
1.1812].

The EURUSD is being corrected down a little. I recommend entering
purchases on the decline to the zone of [1.1705 – 1.1645]. To enter a
trades, expect a confirmation by a Price Action signal or a candlestick
pattern, a false breakout, for example.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in the zone of [1.1705 - 1.1645].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1832 - 1.1812]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-30092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-30092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus