+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-17"
description = "US dollar price forecast 17 March 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 17 March 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-17

2021-03-17

Dollar feels good. Forecast of 17.03.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Things that scare the entire world do not worry the Federal Reserve. The
Treasury yield growth reflects the strength of the US economy. Will the
US central bank try to stop this? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and
make up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

Everything changes. For the first time over the past twelve months,
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s do not consider the pandemic a major driver of pricing in
financial markets. The financial managers who manage almost $600
billion, polled by BofA Merrill Lynch, say that the major risk factors
are inflation and Treasury yields' uncontrolled growth. How will the Fed
manage the excessive rise of the US bond market rates, and will it do
this at all?

The FOMC's December forecasts suggested that US GDP would expand by 4.2%
in 2021, inflation would rise to 1.8%, and unemployment would fall to
5%. Given the rapid vaccinations, massive fiscal stimulus, and strong
domestic data, projections should be revised up. According to Bloomberg
experts, the central bank will increase its growth forecasts. And the
increase should be quite significant. In particular, economists expect
that the estimates for GDP will be up to almost 6%.

###  **Median estimate of FOMC December forecasts**

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

If the Fed upgrades the forecasts, will it stick to its former
projections for the federal funds rate? Only one FOMC member in December
saw the rate hike in 2022, five suggested it be up in 2023, the rest -
in 2024. In fact, there is definitely a point. The most serious risk of
the March meeting will be the shift in the timing of the monetary
restriction start from 2024 to 2023. In this situation, there will be
another reason to continue selling the US Treasuries. I believe that the
Fed will not allow this; the projections for the future federal funds
rate trajectory should not change, which will confirm the central bank’s
patience.

However, this does not seem to be sufficient to clamp down on the
Treasury yields rally. The ultra-easy monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) pushed up
inflation, and it makes no sense to hold bonds amid the PCE rapid
growth. Jerome Powell and his team are faced with a challenge. One of
the solutions to the problem could be the phrase that the US inflation
remains low, but the Fed expects a temporary surge in the inflation
rate.

Another matter is whether the Fed needs to worry about rising borrowing
costs? Historically low debt rates drove debt service cost down to 1.6%
of GDP in 2020. And in 2021, the interest payments should continue
declining, despite the recent rally in yields and an increase in the
volume of bond issues.

### Dynamics of US debt servicing cost

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The USA is reaping the results of its exclusivity when, due to explosive
GDP growth, it does not need to worry about bond yields rally. So, the
US dollar is naturally rising. The gap between potential and actual
production volumes in the eurozone is twice as large as in the United
States. Yes, with fiscal stimulus from Joe Biden and transatlantic
trade, the gap will be narrowing, but this requires certain conditions,
including rapid vaccination, which is a big problem in Europe.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

It is still relevant to hold the [EURUSD][1] shorts [entered on the
price rise to 1.199][2]. If the price doesn’t go up above 1.193 due to
Jerome Powell’s speech, it will make sense to add up to the shorts with
the target profits at 1.18, 1.176, and 1.172.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/euro-if-being-fed-forecast-as-of-11032021/