+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-11"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 11.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 11.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 11, 2020

May 11, 2020

Will the euro make a fortune at the expense of others?Dmitri Demidenko

## EUR/USD is above 1.08 being supported by the US stocks

The [EUR/USD][1] response to the US jobs report represents the market
sentiment. The U.S. stock market rally despite the US horrible domestic
data weighs on the US dollar. However, as soon as the euro-area problem
becomes acute, the EUR/USD is sliding down. The US unemployment rate
rose to 14.7% and employment fell by 20.5 million in April. However, the
S&P 500 bull trend didn’t break. The forecasts of the Wall Street
Journal suggested a weaker report (16.1% and the loss of 22 million
jobs). Many analysts believe that April is the worst month based on the
loss of jobs amid the pandemic, and, if the worst time is over, it makes
sense to buy the US stocks now.

The US stock market rally supported the growth of most G10 currencies
versus the US dollar, but the euro has quickly weakened amid the euro-
area problems. A split among the euro-area countries that has started
after the governments failed to agree on the corona bonds and increased
after the ruling of the German constitutional court is a strong point of
the Euroskeptics, which increases the risk of the euro-area breakup.
Italy is not like Greece or other small countries within the EU that
used to cause trouble in the Eurozone earlier.

The size of the euro-area fiscal and monetary stimulus is much less than
that in the USA, which suggests the European GDP will be recovering
slower than the US economy, so the [EUR/USD][1] uptrend will hardly
continue. Yes, the EU finance ministers manage to agree on emergency
support of 2% of GDP for each stressed country in the week ended May 10.
ESM will provide loans at a negative rate, which, taking into account
the fees charged, will be about 0.1%. This means that Italy and the euro
area, in general, received the support of about €36 billion and €240
billion, which is far less than the US fiscal stimulus of $3 trillion
that could be boosted in late May or early June. The negotiations
between the White House and Congress are going on, but the US Treasury
Secretary Steven Mnuchin says the states that poorly managed the budgets
before the pandemic should not be rescued by the federal government.

Remarkably, the derivatives market doesn’t suggest the [EUR/USD][1] will
break through the low at 1.063 hit in March. Options traders see that
the euro is supported by the US stocks and the factors of the dollar
weakness in the long-term prospect, including the excessive growth of
the Fed’s balance sheet and the increase in the US budget deficit.

 **Volumes of option contracts**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 11.05.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

In the meanwhile, the European court has retaliated to the German judges
that declared its decision on the legacy of the ECB QE is invalid. The
EU court noted that its task is to ensure that the EU legislation is
properly applied in all the 27 countries within the currency bloc. It
alone has the jurisdiction to determine the legacy of acts taken by the
EU institutions. On the one hand, this gave the ECB freedom to act, on
the other hand, it encourages the Euroskeptics. The [EUR/USD][1] bulls
are not strong but they still believe the S&P 500 should allow them to
hold the pair above 1.08.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Will the euro make a fortune at the expense of others?][5]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/eurusd-put-11-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=2f9860e4476c61064f1ef64bca3c0691
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=will-the-euro-make-a-fortune-at-the-expense-of-others&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=will-the-euro-make-a-fortune-at-the-expense-of-others&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-11-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=5eaf18417e8bb23bafb19df74f51ef60