+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-11"
description = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 11, 2020

May 11, 2020

Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysisRoman Onegin

## Forecast for BTCUSD, LTCUSD, ETHUSD, EOSUSD, XRPUSD pairs

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[BTCUSD][1]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][2]**

In the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) BTCUSD price chart, there is developing the down corrective
wave 4. It is developing as a double zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]. Sub-waves [W]
and [X] have completed, and there is developing the final wave [Y]. Let
us see the chart structure in more detail in the eight-hour timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][3]

Wave (Y), according to the structure unfolding, is a plain down zigzag
A-B-C, where wave A is a five-wave bear impulse, wave B is an upward
correction that is a double zigzag [w]-[x]-[y]. The market is now moving
down in the final impulse wave C. The price might be declining in this
wave to a level of 3751. An approximate trajectory of the future price
movement is outlined in the chart.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[ETHUSD][4]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][5]**

The ETHUSD market is forming the down triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z].
The zigzags [W] and [Y], and the linking waves [X] and [X]. There is now
forming the motive wave [Z] which is a bear zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). Let us
see the [Z] wave in more detail in the eight-hour timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][6]

The corrective wave (B) completed in the down zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). After
that, the market has started down in the impulse wave (C). After the
long-term upward correction 4 completed as a triple zigzag
[w]-[x]-[y]-[x]-[z], there has started forming the initial phase of the
final impulse wave 5. The price should be declining in this wave to a
level of 98.67, it is the previous low created by impulse 3.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[LTCUSD][7]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][8]**

The LTCUSD market continues forming the bear triple zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. After the second upward linking wave [X] completed,
there has started the down wave [Z] that is unfolding as a plain zigzag
(A)-(B)-(C). Let us see the structure of this wave in more detail in the
shorter timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][9]

The chart displays the structure of the down zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). Wave
(A) is a down impulse. There has also completed the upward corrective
wave (B) that is composed of three sub-waves W-X-Y. There is now forming
the down impulse wave (C), with the deep correction 4 completed within.
Next, the market continued declining in the final impulse 5 towards a
level of 23.82. This is the previous low created by impulse 3. An
approximate trajectory of the future price movement is outlined.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[EOSUSD][10]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][11]**

The EOSUSD market continues forming the global simple zigzag A-B-C,
namely, its middle part – wave B. The corrective wave B is unfolding is
a zigzag composed of the sub-waves [A]-[B]-[C]. Wave [A] is a five-wave
impulse, correction [B] is an upward double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y), wave [C]
is an impulse composed of sub-waves (1)-(2)-(3)-(4)-(5). Let us see the
chart structure in more detail in the shorter timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][12]

The sub-waves (1)-(2)-(3)-(4) have completed in wave [C]. There is now
developing the final impulse wave (5), with the corrective wave 4
completed inside as a triple zigzag [w]-[x]-[y]-[x]-[z]. Next, the
market has started declining in the impulse wave 5. Therefore, the
entire [C] wave is likely to complete at a level of 1.38, which is the
previous low made by bear wave 3.

* * *

###  **Wave analysis for[XRPUSD][13]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][14]**

The upward simple zigzag A-B-C has been developing for more than four
years. The bear impulse A has completed. The down corrective wave B is
yet developing. Wave B is unfolding as a triple zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The first four parts of this formation have
completed, and there is now developing wave [Z]. Let us see its
structure in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][15]

The sideways corrective wave (B) has completed as an expanding triangle
within the [Z] wave. After that, there has started developing the final
impulse wave (C), which is composed of five sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. After
bullish correction 4 completed as a triple zigzag, the market has
started forming the initial phase of impulse 5. The price should be
declining to a level of the previous low at 0.109.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][16]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][17] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysis][18]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/11-05-2020X/BTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=97d97da21e080886f5299e50bbb9e8c5
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/11-05-2020X/BTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=545ee5b9f0d19858a75f6c30bbc02eab
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/11-05-2020X/ETHUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=d571f72694437473a12e68b6c08f9e26
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/11-05-2020X/ETHUSDH8.png?w=30&s=770f300dd26c05281a647efe7ec29c7a
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/11-05-2020X/LTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=c5e2b504cfd0e7b18c8708ed57ac1974
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/11-05-2020X/LTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=cb9d904bee8a7f2b04c310371d41f1d9
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/11-05-2020X/EOSUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=756f0fae994ac177e592428152ee7ad2
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/11-05-2020X/EOSUSDH8.png?w=30&s=fce9db1427a4f453cca0595db4ac3bd9
   13. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/11-05-2020X/XRPUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=cea5b47765efa87ff8885a3d6beb3582
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/11-05-2020X/XRPUSDH8.png?w=30&s=ba44440aa3f8ba6c625f2fc6205e28f7
   16. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-05-11&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   17. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-05-11&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/1-elliott-waves-weekly-forecast-for-[BTC](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/who-is-the-creator-of-bitcoin/)usd-ethusd-ltcusd-eosusd-xrpusd_1000x545.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1480cfce2406c81b57be8a77076342f1