+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-27"
description = "Pound price forecast 27 October 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 27 October 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-10-27

2021-10-27

Pound has gone too far. Forecast as of 27.10.2021Dmitri Demidenko

If the market does not move in the direction expected, it is more likely
to move in the opposite direction. The inability of the [GBPUSD][1]
bulls to consolidate the price above 1.379 is a sign of their weakness
and a reason for entering sales. Let us discuss the market outlook and
make up a trading plan.

## Weekly pound fundamental forecast

The previous head of the Bank of England, Mark Carney, was called
unreliable and was accused of misleading the markets about future rate
changes. However, Andrew Bailey can easily surpass him. According to
HSBC, the current head of the BoE will be among those who will vote
against raising interest rate at the November 4 meeting. But he said
that BoE would have to react to prevent inflation from accelerating! Is
there another unreliable person in the UK?

The market's faith in increasing borrowing costs by 15 bps at the next
MPC meeting and another 100 bps by the end of 2022 was seriously
undermined, which prevented the [GBPUSD][1] from consolidation above
1.379. Traders can also forget about the update of October highs.
Investors are wondering how the interest rate can be raised amid the
return of the Brexit topic (London officials say that Brussels' efforts
to fix Northern Ireland problems are insufficient, which could trigger a
trade war), the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases, the energy
crisis and the extremely slow recovery of the UK economy?

On the other hand, the dynamics of the British 2-year bond yield signals
that sterling is obviously undervalued. Thus, the actual increase in
borrowing costs at the November BoE meeting may become the basis for
entering GBP purchases.

### Dynamics of [GBPUSD][1] and UK bond yields



 _Source: Bloomberg._

The debt market readings go against the forecasts of Bloomberg experts,
who expect to see [GBPUSD][1] at level 1.37 at the end of 2021, compared
to 1.43 four months ago. The rise in bond yields is also saddening for
the Treasury, which has tripled its debt levels compared to 20 years ago
and is now considering how it will service them. Despite the fact that
the Bank of England gained independence in 1997, it still reports to the
government. Now the most aggressive monetary restriction in the last 100
years (markets expect the interest rate to rise to 1.25% by the end of
2022) may cause problems for Andrew Bailey with the Treasury.

However, at the moment, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are focused on the issue of raising
borrowing costs at the November 4 meeting. HSBC claims that the MPC will
keep the rate unchanged by 7 to 2 votes, and Andrew Bailey will be among
the opponents of the raise. Former Bank of England officials have also
questioned the tightening of monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), arguing that in the past,
before raising the repo rate, there were always dissenters in the
Monetary Policy Committee. Since the beginning of the pandemic, they
have not voiced their position.

### Weekly [GBPUSD][1] trading plan

In my opinion, expectations of aggressive actions by the central bank at
the next meeting have gone very far. The pound may pay for it. Moreover,
the USD feels confident. The epidemiological situation in the United
States is beginning to improve, economic data is encouraging, inflation
is still high, so expectations of a Fed rate hike in the fall of 2022
may shift to an earlier period. This will contribute to the decline of
the [GBPUSD][1] price in the direction of level 1.36. I recommend
entering short trades.



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true