+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-19"
description = "US dollar price forecast 19 March 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 19 March 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-19

2021-03-19

Dollar is one of a kind. Forecast as of 19.03.2021Dmitri Demidenko

In ordinary life, people do not really like those who stand out, but in
the market, such companies, countries, or currencies attract everyone's
attention. In 2021, the unique path of the US economic development
drives the [EURUSD][1] down. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make
up a trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

Exclusivity. An essential term for financial markets. Usually, the
world’s economies develop in sync; they contract during the global
recession and expand in the recovery period. However, if any country
goes along a different path, the local currency becomes the strongest.
For example, the yuan was growing in 2020 amid China's unique way in the
fight against COVID-19. This year, another country is exclusive – the
USA. This circumstance supports the US dollar bulls.

In early 2021, the greenback was an outsider. The election defeat of
Donald Trump deprived the dollar of a significant benefit, political
uncertainty, and unpredictability. Expectations of synchronized economic
growth following the victory over the pandemic supported the growth of
the global risk appetite, which should have pressed down safe-haven
assets. However, the world GDPs recover unevenly. The US economy should
feature the best growth in almost four decades (!), while the euro-area
economy should slide into a double-dip recession. The [EURUSD][1]
downtrend looks natural amid the divergence in economic expansion.

### Dynamics of global economies



 _Source_ _: Financial Times_

Let's remember how the uptrend in [EURUSD][1] started in 2020. While
Donald Trump made mistakes in the fight against the pandemic, the EU
effectively managed it with the help of lockdowns, the exit from which
allowed the euro-area GDP to outperform the US. The EU recovery fund of
€750 billion also supported the euro strengthening. Almost a year has
passed, and the US governments cannot agree on spending the funds. It
was planned that the money would arrive by the end of April, but this
date was postponed until the summer. Christine Lagarde calls for the use
of resources without delay, but things are still there so far. The
United States continues to increase its fiscal stimulus. Furthermore,
Bloomberg estimates the US has $1.7 trillion in extra savings. The money
will go into the economy, driving the US GDP to 6.5%

Besides, the vaccination is slow in the EU, where 12% of the population
were inoculated compared to 34% in the US. It looks as if the
[EURUSD][1] bulls are doomed to failure. But it is not so, in fact.
Large-scale fiscal stimulus and explosive growth of the US GDP lead to
the expansion of the US twin deficits - the fiscal deficit and a current
account deficit, which is negative for the greenback in the long term.
All this needs to be funded, and, to encourage foreigners to buy
Treasuries, it is necessary not only to raise the yields but also to
weaken the dollar.

### Dynamics of the shares of foreign [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s and Fed in the Treasury
market



 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Therefore, the [EURUSD][1] long-term outlook remains bullish. However,
the uptrend won’t resume until the euro-area economy shows signs of
recovery. In the short-term, the pair could go down to 1.18, 1.176, and
1.72 if the traders successfully test the lower border of the
consolidation range of 1.188-1.199. Otherwise, if the price breaks out
the resistance at 1.199 will allow the pair to go up to 1.204 and
1.2085.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true