+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-22"
description = "Dollar is the safest asset"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Dollar is the safest asset"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=10.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 22, 2020

May 22, 2020

Forex turns to dollarDmitri Demidenko

##  **Trump sometimes overacts, but the game is worth the candle**

When you’re a losing a game, for example a presidential campaign, risky
moves may be appropriate to the situation. Even if there’s a small
chance that they will be repaid. The pandemic, high mortality rates,
recession and March’s slump of US stock indexes undermined Trump’s
chance of re-election in November. So, his accusations against the WHO
and China look inappropriate only at first sight. In fact, they are
quite to the point, at least from the point of view of game theory.

In the case of Trump, it’s hard to differentiate between mastery and
idiocy. The trade war with China and Fed criticism proved the US
president knows [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) achieve his goals, even though he behaves like a
girl.

> \- Is there any way to calm down a girl that got too nervous?

>

> \- No way, just run.

![LiteForex: Dollar is the safest asset][1]

One day Donald Trump rushed into the White House and started shouting
that all were lazy good-for-nothings and he would fire them. Steven
Mnuchin and Robert Lighthizer got so upset that they couldn’t finish
their bottle of cognac.

Actually, the US administration works like clockwork and continues
asserting the economy of the USA will see a V-shape recovery. Even if
few are those who believe in it now. But stock indexes require this
rhetoric, which means Trump needs it too.

The USA and its president got in a wrong place from where there’s no way
out. They need to reopen the economy, at risk of facing another wave of
COVID-19, and to win the election now that the coronavirus death toll
exceeded the casualties of the Vietnam War, where 58,000 Americans had
died.

![LiteForex: Dollar is the safest asset][2]

Trump seems to be overacting. He accused China of spreading
misinformation in order to prevent him from winning “the presidential
race”, “so they can continue to rip-off the United States”. We have
already got used to this kind of accusations. Such a strategy let the
States win the trade war, but is it appropriate now when Beijing has
been making every effort to comply with the obligations under January’s
agreement?

![LiteForex: Dollar is the safest asset][3]

Blaming others for one’s own mistakes is easy. Just have a try. The US
president needs a scapegoat while Jerome Powell is no longer good for
the role. So, he dreamt up his accusations and he says his temper
changed for the worse but he’s got no money to fix it. Trump does have
money, but he's not going to spend it on that. Beijing is waiting and
thinking to itself: “I’d tell you to go to hell, but I see you’ve been
there already”.

China pretends to be a kind easy-going person, but this type of a person
is the most dangerous one during pandemics. They spread viruses. It’s
reserved unpleasant people that turn out to be the safest. Forex got
used to Trump and turns to the US dollar as the world’s safest currency.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>







## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Forex turns to dollar][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/girl-22-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=512388faf8e8d92788103791fb9e9efd
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/trump-22-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=ee03172610e34c8fbfd84f8c0ff781b7
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/trump-china-22-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=ef3bd51befae058ea2b501f88d86740c
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=forex-turns-to-dollar&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=forex-turns-to-dollar&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/liteforex-blog-forex-22-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=053fc060479300f016ec90658c7dded0