+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-22"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 22.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 22.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 22, 2020

May 22, 2020

Dollar likes another letterDmitri Demidenko

## The US dollar will be popular even without a quick rebound of the
global economy

Can the US economy again become great in 2021, as Steven Mnuchin claims?
Investors shouldn’t be concerned about this, rather, they should focus
on the financial markets’ confidence and the words of the US Treasury
Secretary. As the S&P 500 is falling, stock traders follow the principle
“trust but verify”. Weekly jobless claims rose 2.4 million for the week
ended May 16. The pace of the indicator growth is declining from its
peak of about 7 million in late March. The total number of unemployed
rose from 22.5 million to 25.1 million in a week. PMI has been up from
April low, but it is still weak. The US economy will hardly follow a
V-shaped rebound, there is likely to be another letter.

 **Dynamics of US jobless claims**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 22.05.2020][1]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The domestic data in the euro-area are also weak. According to Markit,
composite PMI has been up from 13.6 to 30.5 in May. However, the
unemployment rate is growing at an unprecedented pace, despite all the
efforts spent by the euro-area governments to support the labor market.
The worst PMI drop was in April, however, the fear of the coronavirus
still press the consumer activity down, and the lower demand forces the
employers to fire the employees. It may take years to return to a pre-
crisis level. Furthermore, Capital Economics expects the euro-area GDP
to contract by 20% in the second quarter.

 **Dynamics of PMIs**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 22.05.2020][2]

 _Source: Wall Street Journal_

The weakness of the US and euro-area economies sets the stock indexes
back and increases the demand for safe havens. The demand for the
greenback is supported by the uncertainty around the US-China trade
relations. Also, China is unwilling to set the GDP target for 2020. For
the first time in more than 25 years, China has decided not to set the
growth target, which signals that Beijing won’t expand the fiscal and
monetary stimulus so that the economic growth pace could reach at least
5.5% Y-o-Y this year. According to the experts surveyed by the Wall
Street Journal, such a pace is needed to double the Chinese GDP in the
next 10 years.

A lack of extra stimulating measures in China is bad [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) for the
export-led euro-area economy, which weighs on the euro. However, it is
still much time before the end of 2020, and China’s position can still
alter. US-China trade relations can also change. The White House's top
economic adviser Larry Kudlow has said the U.S.-China "Phase 1" trade
deal reached in January is "intact" and doesn't need to be renegotiated,
but China must be punished for an inappropriate response to the
coronavirus pandemic. Donald Trump warned that Washington would react
“very strongly” against the attempt of China to impose new national
security legislation on Hong Kong

I think one shouldn’t reduce the share of the US dollar in the
investment portfolio and expect the [EUR/USD][3] to exit the middle-term
trading range of 1.065-1.115 unless a  _C_ OVID-19 vaccine is found and
the global GDP quickly rebounds.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar likes another letter][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/claims-usa-22-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=f178f8f2c9170a61497b00ab51e5aa89
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/pmi-usa-euroarea-22-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=8f4050e9cbcbef13a0432032ad60cbb0
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-likes-another-letter&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-likes-another-letter&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-22-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=5ba8eb0fab8ea44d3238fc3474aa001b