+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-22"
description = "Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 22, 2020

May 22, 2020

Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USDAlex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

Having analyzed the oil trend over the past few weeks, I should note
that the market is gradually stabilizing. The middle-term trend is up.
The price has broken out Target Zone 3 [26.67 – 25.92] in the trend. The
next growth target is Target Zone 4 [34.17 - 33.42]. The trend key
support is now in the zone of [23.97 — 23.07].

For next week, I suggest looking for purchases in the strong support
zone. If the key support is tested, we shall look for a pattern.

If the local low is broken through, the lower Target Zone should be
rearranged. If the price breaks out TZ4 and consolidates above, the next
target will be in Target Zone 5 [41.67- 40.92].

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][1]

 **[USCrude][2]Trading tips for the upcoming week: **

Buy according to the pattern in Target Zone [23.97 - 23.07]. TakeProfit:
Target Zone 4 [34.17 - 33.42]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

Last week, the gold price reached the main buy target Target Zone 5
[1757.2 - 1751.2]. This week, there was a try to break through the
resistance, but buyers have failed and the price has been down from the
strong level. The gold price is now being corrected down.

For next week, I suggest considering sell trades with a target at the
trend key support [1673.6 - 1664.4]. One may enter short trades at the
50% Fibonacci retracement level (see the screenshot).

An alternative scenario suggests the uptrend should continue. It will be
relevant if traders break out TZ5 and consolidate the price above at two
US sessions. In this case, we shall look for buy entries on the retest
of the broken-out level, the upside target will be Target Zone 6 [1817.2
— 1811.2].

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][3]

 **[XAUUSD][4]  Trading tips for the upcoming week: **

Sell from level 1735.0. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1673.6 - 1664.4].
StopLoss: 1747.7.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EUR/USD is trading in the middle-term uptrend. In the first two
weeks of May, traders were testing the key support zone [1.0835 –
1.0783], which wasn’t broken out. This week, there has been developing
an upward momentum. Finally, the price approached the top border of a
wide flat channel, level 1.1017, it is now rolling back.

It is still relevant to enter medium-term purchases. There is a double
bottom pattern in the chart, which could be used to enter new buy trades
on the correction. The targets are still at the high of May 1 and Target
Zone 2 [1.1109 – 1.1091].

I think that it will be relevant to sell when the low of May 7 is broken
through and the price breaks out Target Zone. If so, the EUR/USD is
likely to be falling towards the lower Target Zone 2 [1.0653 — 1.0635].

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][5]

 **[EURUSD][6]  Trading tips for the upcoming week: **

Buy according to the pattern in the zone of [1.0897 - 1.0878].
TakeProfit: 1.1017, Target Zone 2 [1.1109 - 1.1091]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][7]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][8] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][9]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/USCrude_analysis_220520.png?w=30&s=34ed400b875ea75f81e07b3ace5b2c45
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_220520.png?w=30&s=a875ff0379a5e0fc99793ee37d363eea
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_220520.png?w=30&s=6b04402055e1288e54a8a6514a0a81aa
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-2020-05-22&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-2020-05-22&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/buy_sell.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=51f73085e8fff39d0e6e138cf6461cd7