+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-10"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (10 February 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (10 February 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-10

2021-02-10

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 10.02.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Euro has reached the border of the medium-term downtrend.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The oil price continues to rise within the medium-term uptrend. The
growth target is Target Zone 5 [59.82 - 59.31]. Expect the zone to be
reached this week. After that, it will be possible to consider trades in
the correction.

In the meantime, continue to look for purchases. The key support is
shifting to the levels [53.98 - 53.52].

The short-term oil trend is up.

Additional Zone [57.37 - 57.26] was tested yesterday. This led to a
price growth and a test of the resistance level 58.40.

Now oil is slightly correcting to yesterday's growth at the US trading
session. If the prices fall in the Additional Zone [57.37 - 57.26]
again, look for purchases according to the pattern.

The trend key support is located at the level [56.24 - 56.01].

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [57.37 - 57.26]. TakeProfit: 58.47. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [56.24 - 56.01]. TakeProfit: 58.47. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

The gold price is rising. According to the methodology, the medium-term
trend is down. Enter sales according to the pattern in the [1840 - 1830]
zone or the trend border [1906 - 1895]. As a target, focus on the last
week's low.

The short-term trend is also down. Now the price is testing the trend
key resistance [1845 - 1840]. Wait for a sell pattern to form and enter
short trades with the target at the last week's low + Target Zone [1775
- 1765].

Alternative scenario: breakout of the Intermediary Zone and
consolidation above. In this case, look for purchases with the target at
the upper Target Zone [1906 - 1895], while the short-term impulse will
reverse up.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1845 - 1840].
TakeProfit: 1785, Target Zone [1775 - 1765]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Euro has reached the border of the medium-term downtrend. Observe
whether traders will hold the level and continue the price fall with the
target at the last week's low. Selling the euro requires a pattern.

Let's take a look at the chart of a shorter timeframe and at the local
trend.

The chart shows that the trend is up. Target Zone [1.2128 - 1.2112] was
reached within the trend. Further price growth will be possible if the
Target Zone is broken out. The target, in this case, will be the Gold
Zone [1.2200 - 1.2192].

Until the Target Zone is broken out, a correction can become a general
focus of attention. It is profitable to enter new trades according to
the patterns at strong supports: Additional Zone [1.2089 - 1.2085] and
Intermediary Zone [1.2049 - 1.2041]. In case of correction, the price
will fall to the supports mentioned above.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.2089 - 1.2085]. TakeProfit: 1.2128. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.2049 - 1.2041]. TakeProfit: 1.2128. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-10022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-10022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus