+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-10"
description = "Three White Soldiers Pattern and its Peculiarities"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Three White Soldiers Pattern and its Peculiarities"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-10

2021-02-10

Three White Soldiers Pattern and its PeculiaritiesVladislav Orekhov

History is silent about the exact date, but it is known that
approximately from the beginning of the XVIII century, Japanese
merchants founded their own technical analysis school to use in trade.
Most historians agree that one of the founders of this analysis system
was the Japanese rice merchant Homma Munehisa (Jap. 本間宗久, 1724-1803).

The efficiency of Homma's work was so high that in one of the periods he
concluded 100 successful trades in a row. It is not surprising that
subsequently the Japanese candle analysis of the market became one of
the most popular methods among traders all over the world.

In short, the essence of the Japanese candle analysis is as follows:

  1. Finding a candle pattern.
  2. Determining the location of the pattern in the chart.

The latter point is often decisive. Often even experienced traders make
a typical mistake - they almost instantly determine the candlestick
pattern by its shape but do not pay attention to the location of the
pattern, and this is a fundamental point.

## Three white soldiers

Let us consider this pattern based on the book by famous author Gregory
Morris, Candlestick Charting Explained: Timeless Techniques for Trading
Stocks and Futures.

Let's see what the author of the book says.

Everything seems to be clear and on the point. Except for one big BUT -
in all sources known to me, the three white soldiers is considered a
reversal pattern.

Let's say that we have critical thinking and do not believe blindly
everything we read. We want to verify everything personally. The author
himself comes to the rescue!

We see the three white soldiers pattern through the example of the
pattern presented by the author. Indeed, after the formation of the
pattern, the instrument began to grow confidently and continuously. It
is no accident that I singled out the word continuously. This is the
first peculiarity - the three white soldiers pattern is a sign of the
beginning of a big trend. Specifically in this case, after the formation
of the pattern, within three days, the growth continued for more than a
month! An interesting observation that each of you can verify - on the
basis of only 3 days we can make a forecast for many days or even weeks
ahead.

Let us consider a real example. Below is the weekly chart of the
NASDAQ-100 index.

We see how, after the patterning of 3 white soldiers, the price
continued to grow for several more months.

However, let's turn again to the picture provided by the author and try
to understand whether or not we saw the trend reversal after the
formation of the pattern. And the answer is absolutely NOT! It is easy
to see that the reversal happened much earlier. And this is the second
peculiarity - the three white soldiers pattern is a CONTINUATION
pattern.

It might seem an insignificant remark, but by no means is it so. It is
the location of the candle pattern that determines whether it is a
pattern or not. Therefore, do not look for the three white soldiers
pattern in the very bottom of the chart. The pattern will appear near
the bottom, but after a change in trend. This is what we see in Figure
3-71. I should also note that you should not look for this pattern in
the area of high prices.

### Peculiarity number 3. Structure and Size of the Candles

Let us turn again to Gregory Morris’s book.



Here the author is absolutely right in all the statements, but you can
add a few points.

1) The model will be considered stronger if the upper shadows of the
candles are extremely small or completely absent.

This phenomenon will be evidence of the great strength of buyers.

In Japanese sources, the following representation of this model is more
common:

There are practically no upper shadows above the candles.

2) In many sources I note the following alleged fact: "Candles should
preferably be of medium size, since heavily stretched bodies can mean
overbought market."

In my opinion, the statement is extremely doubtful. Almost any trend
begins with a strong momentum. In this case, the large size of the
candles, relative to the neighboring ones, will indicate the strength of
the buyers. In addition, the term overbought can be applied to various
financial markets with great reservations: more to the stock market and
less to the super liquid foreign exchange market.

### Peculiarity number 4. Working out the Pattern

Let us turn again to the example from the book.

It is easy to see that before going into continued growth after the
formation of the pattern, the price previously made a corrective move.
My personal experience shows that in most cases it is worth waiting for
exactly this behavior of the asset. The price going into growth
immediately is extremely rare, although this also happens.

Everyone should decide for themselves [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) act in a similar situation.
I prefer to wait for the corrective movement and buy the instrument from
rollback. If the price does not roll back and immediately goes into
growth, I usually just skip such signals. The market is big, there is no
need to hurry - there will always be good trading situations.

Another small observation: if after the formation of the pattern in
question there is a correctional movement, it very rarely goes beyond
the low of the average candle. This observation allows you to lower the
stop loss when opening a trading position. Ideally, I try to put the
stop loss behind an extreme, or a strong support / resistance level.

### Addition

The Three White Soldiers have two related models – Advance Block and
Deliberation.

Despite the fact that both these models are related to the three white
soldiers pattern, I prefer not to use them. Practice shows that the
mathematical probability of these patterns working out is slightly lower
than the three white soldiers. A more detailed statistical analysis can
also be found in G. Morris's book.

## Conclusion

  1. The Three White Soldiers is a continuation pattern, not a reversal one. This important note will help you correctly determine the location of the pattern, which in turn is a key element in the analysis of the market with the help of Japanese candles.
  2. The Three White Soldiers is a sign of the beginning of a continuous trend. The pattern shows the strength of buyers, and we know that trends almost always begin with strong impulse movements.
  3. The pattern will be considered stronger if the upper shadows of the candles are extremely small or completely absent. This phenomenon will be an additional confirmation of the strength of bulls.
  4. Quite often the formation of the three white soldiers pattern is followed by a small correction usually not reaching the low of the second candle. However, one should be prepared to this turn of events as well - we must remember that there are no guarantees on the market.
  5. The Three White Soldiers has 2 related models - Advance Block and Deliberation. I should note that these patterns have the properties of three white soldiers, but they require additional confirmation. I prefer not to use these patterns in my trading.



* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][1]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][2] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=100-most-efficient-forex-chart-patterns&slug2=three-white-soldiers-pattern-and-its-peculiarities&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   2. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=100-most-efficient-forex-chart-patterns&slug2=three-white-soldiers-pattern-and-its-peculiarities&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus