+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-19"
description = "Stock Trading Guide for Beginners: How to Trade Stocks Online"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Stock Trading Guide for Beginners: How to Trade Stocks Online"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=18.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-08-19

2021-08-19

Stock Trading: A Guide for BeginnersJana Kane

Stock trading has gained popularity and momentum, particularly with the
introduction of online trading platforms. Compared to traditional
methods, online trading in stocks is easily accessible and simpler. This
is why more and more people are looking for the correct path to begin
trading. This article is a comprehensive guide on stock trading,
including its types, pros, cons, and [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) trade stocks for [beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/).

The article covers the following subjects:

## Stock Trading: The Essentials

Stock trading means to buy or sell shares in a specific company, and
actions are based on [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price fluctuations where short-term gains are
prioritized over long-term gains. The person who buys and sells shares
and engages in financial investments in the stock market is known as a
stock trader. The key feature of stock trading is that a trader doesn’t
own real shares but gains profit on price difference. Stock trading is
done via CFD (Contract for Differences), which refers to a cash-settled
financial contract that uses financial derivations to pay the
differences between the opening and closing trades.

Stock trading can be done through a brokerage firm or an agent. When
someone says they trade in the stock market, they refer to buying and
selling shares/equities on one (or more) of the stock exchanges that
make up the broader stock market. The Nasdaq, New York Stock Exchange
(NYSE), and Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) are the top stock
exchanges in the United States.

## Various Stock Types: Which One to Choose

Stocks or equities reflect ownership of a company’s portion, which
directly entitles the stockholder to the assets and profits related to
the subject portion of the company. “Shares” are the units of stock.

Following are the four types of stocks a trader can trade in the stock
market:

### Growth Stocks

A growth stock refers to a company that can grow above the average
market rate, outpacing its peers with respect to gains and stock
performance. The benefits traders could receive are due to the
significant price rises - and these, in turn, result from a high growth
rate, competitive advantages, a loyal customer base, and revenue.
Examples of successful growth stocks include Amazon, Facebook, Apple,
and Netflix. Amazon and Facebook have, over the years, displayed a high
growth rate. Similarly, Apple and Netflix enjoy a loyal customer base
due to their competitive advantage.

### Dividend (AKA Yield) Stocks

Dividend stocks (also referred to as yield stocks) are the publicly-
listed companies that provide regular dividends, are well-established,
and perform well in bull markets. The yield on stocks, known as the cost
yield or yield on cost (YOC), is calculated as the sum of the increase
in price and the dividends paid divided by the purchase price. Most
companies also use the current market price for calculating the yield on
their stocks. Because yield and stock prices have an inverse connection,
the current yield falls as a company's stock price rises. The benefits
of trading defensive stocks include withstanding financial crises with
less volatility, having cash backup, and the potential for positive
long-term performance.

### New Issues

A new issue refers to a stock registered in a publicly-traded financial
market for the first time. The majority of new issues originate from
privately owned firms that go public, providing fresh possibilities for
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s. An Initial Public Offering (IPO) is used to offer the new
issue to the public via stock exchanges like the Nasdaq or the NYSE. The
intention behind new issues is to raise capital for the respective
company. The key benefits of trading in these stocks include new capital
and value for the company, easy investment realization, and exposure to
a new company. Additionally, the stock price on the IPO is usually low,
which provides impressive prospects for future gains.

### Defensive Stocks

Defensive stocks refer to the shares in a company that offers regular
dividends and reliable profits. Since there is a continuous demand for
their products, defensive stocks are more stable than the other types of
stocks, regardless of the stock market’s overall state. Defensive stocks
provide a significant advantage over the other stocks in long-term
returns while posing a reduced risk. Defensive stocks are opted for in
times of economic instability. Examples of defensive stocks include
Coca-Cola, Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble, etc. However, in bull
markets, the subject stocks offer smaller profits due to their nature of
low volatility.

 ****

## Advantages of Trading Stocks

The entire stock market is valued at [$95 trillion][1], with the
potential to grow in the coming years. The stock market is risky and has
provided [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s with significant profits as well as losses. It can be
used to create revenue if the risks are controlled. The main pros of
online stock trading are discussed below:

 **1\. Income:** Stock trading is based on buying and selling stocks
without owning them. Thus, in a bear market, traders can take advantage
of the weak market condition.  Strategies include buying stocks at lows
to make gains and selling at highs. Online stock trading is considered
one of the most popular ways to make money. Once successful leveraging
of the risk is done, traders can make significant profits.

 **2\. Hedging:** Stock trading helps to diversify your portfolio.
Through portfolio diversification, a trader can collect varied
investments, thereby assisting in reducing risks such as permanent loss
of capital or their portfolio’s volatility. For diversification, a
beginner trader can buy above 10 stocks in a range of different
industries in the stock market. This is recommended because during
economic instability, buying stocks from one company can prove risky
since the price can go downhill.

 **3\. Low funds:** Since there is no minimum amount for opening a
trading account, a trader can begin trading stock CFDs with as little as
$100. This ensures the safety of your funds. The amount may vary and
depends on the trading strategy a trader wishes to use. It also depends
on the broker the trader would opt for. Keeping these points in view,
the funds would still be low enough for a trader to afford.

 **4\. Easy trading scheme:** Stock trading is not as tough as one might
initially think. It is simple and easy, particularly if the trader is
familiar with Forex trading. Once the trader's brokerage account has
been set up and funded, he can move on to researching and deciding on
the trade he would like to proceed with. Traders know that a simple rule
is to buy low and sell high to earn gains.

## Disadvantages of Trading Stocks

The stock market is extremely volatile in nature, with new highs and
lows being created every second. Due to this factor, there are several
drawbacks of stock trading as well. The main stock trading cons are
discussed below:

  1. High volatility: This is the main drawback of stock trading. Since the stock market positively correlates with the economic conditions, trading stocks can be challenging if the market conditions change rapidly.

  2. Time: Proper research is necessary before stock trading with a company’s shares. This includes learning [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) interpret financial statements, annual reports, and [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/). Moreover, stock traders must also keep an eye on the stock market, as even the finest companies' stock prices can collapse in a market crash, correction, or bear market. 

  3. Corporate competition: Stock trading and the stock market contain both [beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/) and professional traders, the latter of which have the time, knowledge, tools, models, and computer systems to trade.

  4. Emotional factor: Due to their volatile nature, stocks experience highs and lows in their prices every second. This can create emotional responses, such as fear and greed.

## Types of Stock Trading

Knowing and understanding the different types of stock trading is an
essential step towards the process itself. This is because once a trader
gains knowledge on the available stock trading types, he can examine his
financial objectives and choose which trading technique is best.
Following are the different types of stock trading available in the
stock market:

### Day Trading

Also known as intraday trading, this type requires buying and selling
the stock on the same day and is the most common type. Before the stock
market shuts off, day traders register their gains and losses swiftly
and close their stock trading positions. Intraday trading is aggressive
and necessitates rapid choices. The type is best suited for active
traders who can react quickly to stock market changes.

Day trading is done using trading tools and software; therefore, good
technical analysis and risk management techniques are important. It is
done on low timeframes, from 1 minute to 4 hours.

Read more about intraday trading [here][2].

### Position Trading

Positional trading covers the holding of stocks over longer timeframes,
ranging from several days to several weeks, sometimes longer. Solid
long-term trends are anticipated in the hopes of making a large profit
based on fundamental and technical analyses. Consequently, short-term
fluctuations are not paid heed.

In position trading, minimum alterations or management is required. This
aspect makes it suitable for busy professionals who would prefer to work
on other tasks by not committing extra effort and time to stock trading
while still generating fair profits. This stock trading type is
dependent on the company’s or stock’s future potential.

### Swing Trading

[Swing trading][3] refers to the strategy where traders buy and sell
stocks over the upward and downward trends. Traders intend to capitalize
on the small movements within a larger overall trend. In swing trading,
stocks are held for over 24 hours so that stock market changes may
convert to profits. Estimation of overnight market changes is carried
out.

Positional trading and swing trading share similarities, except that the
position remains active for less than a few months. Swing traders aim to
profit from the underlying momentum. This type is no doubt risky, but
the level of risk is lower than intraday trading.

### Scalping

Through [scalping][4], active stock traders wish to gain profits from
smaller market movements and reselling. They search, recognize, and
select narrower or wider bid-ask spreads. The goal is to trade with lots
of small profits.

In scalping, traders need to have a strong exit strategy since a single
bigger loss could wash out all the smaller profits the trader has
procured. To ensure this, the correct tools, strategies, and time is
required.

## Steps to Start Stock Trading

Stock investments for [beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/) should be kept simple by making
investments in different low-cost index funds. Read more on [[how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/)
invest in stocks][5]. The mechanics of trading stocks, on the other
hand, may be broken down into six steps. Learn [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) trade stocks by
following these steps:

### Open a Brokerage/Trading Account

To initialize the stock trading journey, funding a trading account would
be required. This account holds the trader’s investments for future use.
If an individual does not have a broker’s account, it is recommended to
open one. The process would take a few minutes. Funding is not
immediately required. The trader can navigate through the account to
become familiarized with the platform's interface. Once the trader is
ready to foray into stock trading, he may deposit funds into the
account. To sum up, let’s say a trader has selected a broker and wishes
to open an account. The following steps can be followed:



In order to make trading decisions, you can use analytics and signals
for an instrument, as well as built-in indicators to create your own
trading strategy. If stock trading is completely new to you, try using
the copy trading service to copy trades of professional traders.

d

demaq

Average monthly profit

29571.01%

Codemaster

Average monthly profit

13593.69%

Dutz

Average monthly profit

8237.99%

F

Fast12

Average monthly profit

8086.66%

reza1214

Average monthly profit

6700.33%

Make profits from the first day of trading without training. The best
traders from the whole world gathered on the same platform to share
their money-making strategies.

[ Learn more ][6]

### Learn Through an Online Stock Trading Demo Account

Most brokers offer an online stock trading demo account so that beginner
traders can experience trading before facing the live stock market. The
trader can follow real-time market momentum and practice buying and
selling actions. Demo accounts offer stock market simulators that mimic
the visuals and actions of a real-life stock exchange. Through this, the
trader can make several transactions with various holding periods and
techniques, then examine the outcomes for obvious faults. Once the
trader is confident, he can switch to live trading on the stock market.
Automatic trading platforms are also available where a [robot](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/automated-forex-trading-robot/) takes care
of most of the trading process.

### Set Your Online Stock Trading Budget

Deciding and setting up a stock trading budget is of utmost importance
since funds are central to stock trading. It is recommended to allocate
less than 10% of the portfolio to individual stocks. Investments should
be equal to the amount a trader can afford to lose.

### Set Your Benchmark and Measure Returns Against It

Measurement of indexes is critical in stock trading. Pick stocks for
trading and remember to lead a benchmark index based on their location,
industry, and volume, such as the Nasdaq Composite Index, the Standard &
Poor's 500, or any other such index. Measure the performance of the
stocks against the benchmarks. This will help in looking at the right
index for trading performances.

### Keep Your Perspective

A trader should remember to maintain his perspective on online stock
trading. Since hundreds of stock traders would wait for the same market
movements, it is not essential to always recognize the next biggest
stock catch before others, but it’s vital to find the best market
signals to enter and exit the market. In this context, it is essential
for a trader to do fundamental research, technical analysis, watch stock
market trading actions, create trade records, and monitor market status.

## Learn About the Broker's Commission

Expenses cover the money a trader provides to the broker for online
stock trading. This includes the commission fee, which should be checked
while selecting a broker. Individual stocks bought through a broker may
not incur commission fees. “Bid” refers to the selling price of a stock,
and “ask” refers to the buying price. “Bid-ask spread” refers to the
difference between these two prices, which the broker takes as a
commission for trade execution. Another important aspect a trader should
consider is risk tolerance - how much of a loss the trader can afford to
take within the portfolio.

Check the spread amount for stock trading [here][7].

## Best Online Stock Trading Platform: Features

A good trading platform should have the following key characteristics:

  1. Order Execution Tools: These tools would be required for placing market order and limit order and must include bracket, reverse, hidden, basket, timed, complex, peg, add-on API, and algorithmic scaling.

  2. Stocks: The platform should include a wide range of stocks.

  3. News Feeds: This feature provides the latest financial [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) relevant to the stock market.

  4. Scanning Tools: These tools are essential for searching the market for potential traders.

  5. Research Tools: These tools will contain stock-based information, ratings, and reports.

  6. Technical Tools and Indicators: A wide range of technical tools and indicators should be present to be used for technical analysis.

  7. Customer Service: Customer service is essential for technical and informational help.

## Stock Trading vs. Forex Trading

Stock Trading

|

Forex Trading  
  
---|---  
  
The volatility in stock trading is high.

|

Forex trading is more stable regarding volatility, although there are
highly volatile exotic pairs.  
  
Stock traders can use leverage. Still, it’s usually lower than for Forex
trades.

|

Forex traders can also use high leverage with small investments.  
  
It has business hours. For U.S. stocks, it is [9:30 a.m. to 4:00
p.m][8].

|

It provides 24-hour trading activities.  
  
It can be done via MetaTrader, but only on the MT5 terminal.

|

It can be done via the MT4 or MT5 trading terminal.  
  
## How to Learn to Trade Stocks

Below are the different ways interested individuals can learn to trade:

  1. Read [trading blogs][9].

  2. Opt for a mentor or guide.

  3. Opt for online classes.

  4. Seek advice and recommendations from experts.

  5. Conduct [market analysis][10].

  6. Open a demo trading [virtual account][11].

## The Bottom Line

Online stock trading holds immense opportunities for creating gains. It
is essential to understand that the practice has both advantages and
disadvantages. One can aim to become a successful trader by learning and
understanding how the financial markets connect and move, analyzing
price actions, charts, and stock market trends, and developing
strategies, plans, and budget allocations. Practice with a LiteForex
demo account, and once confident, shift to live trading.

## Stock Trading FAQ

What Are the Best Stocks to Buy for Beginners?

The best stocks a beginner trader can buy include Alibaba, Amazon,
Alphabet, Disney, Apple, Facebook, Netflix, Microsoft, Salesforce.com,
Tesla, Snowflake, Unity, General Motors, and Nio. They all are blue-chip
stocks.

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. spendmenot.com/blog/stock-market-statistics/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/forex-intraday-trading-strategies-rules-and-practical-examples/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/swing-trading-strategies/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/trading-strategies/scalping-forex/
   5. docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1sS00JF2w4Csg23BMegVP7ue0UK33AjXJivitkolbNUQ/edit#gid=0&range=B65:R65
   6. my.liteforex.com/traders?type=profit
   7. www.liteforex.com/trading/trading-instruments/cfd-nyse/
   8. www.investopedia.com/[terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/)/t/tradingsession.asp#:~:text=A%20trading%20session%20is%20the,a%2024%2Dhour%20time%20period.
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/
   11. my.liteforex.com/