+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-19"
description = "US dollar price forecast 19 August 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 19 August 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-08-19

2021-08-19

Safe haven for dollar. Forecast as of 19.08.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The Fed signals a soon tapering of the QE, unlike the ECB that doesn’t
show any signs of monetary tightening. The [EURUSD][1] downtrend is
based on the divergence in monetary policies. Is the majority right? Let
us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan?

## Monthly US dollar fundamental forecast

Many reasons for investment ideas dominating the market are just
assumptions; things may seem but not be. A trend that seems strong could
unexpectedly reverse. After all, the [EURUSD][1] downtrend will hardly
turn up soon. The dollar must be supported by a soon withdrawal of the
US QE.

According to the FOMC July meeting minutes, most officials considered it
advisable to start reducing the monthly pace of asset purchases already
in 2021. Several FOMC members argued that it is better to the QE
tapering sooner rather than later and to give the Fed room to maneuver
on rate hikes. Some members of the Committee noted that an early cut in
QE would allow for a more gradual decrease in the pace of bond
purchases. Opponents said the central bank could wait until early 2022
to get further evidence that the labor market has recovered from the
pandemic fallout.

Most officials believe that the inflation target has been achieved. They
noted progress in the employment, but there was no signal of a specific
timeframe and scope of the QE reduction in July. The stock market
dropped after the publication of the minutes, and [EURUSD][1] rolled
down to a nine-month low. Investors seem to share the Fed's view that it
is better to start scaling back the monetary stimulus sooner rather than
later. In addition, when fears about the impact of the Delta on global
GDP growth look more and more justified, and the end of the program of
quantitative easing is more real, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are willing to buy safe-
havens, such as the US dollar.

Unlike the Fed, the ECB hasn’t signaled the willingness to start
tapering the QE, so traders are selling the [EURUSD][1] based on
monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) divergence. The Fed believes that the PCE target has
been reached, and the inflation rates in the USA and the euro area are
different.

### Dynamics of inflation in USA and euro area

 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

However, the difference of 3.2% is just a mathematical mirage. More than
half of the difference is covered by used car prices and rents. Rental
prices account for 31% in the US CPI and 7.5% in the euro-area CPI. The
price growth in restaurants and hotels in the USA is faster than in the
euro area because the US economy was opened earlier.

### Difference in the price growth in USA and euro area

###

 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

Look for someone who will benefit. The ECB benefits from supporting the
idea of the far slower inflation in the euro area than in the USA.
European exports will benefit from a weaker euro. Thanks to an increase
in exports, the euro-area economy can start outperforming the US growth.
That is when the [EURUSD][1] downtrend will reverse. When will it
happen? In 2022 or 2023? It is difficult to say now.

### Monthly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

In the meanwhile, the EURUSD bears are going ahead amid the expectations
of the QE tapering. It is relevant to sell the [EURUSD][1] on the
corrections with a target in the zone of 1.155-1.158.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true