+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-31"
description = "Forecast for USD price for 31 May 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for USD price for 31 May 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-05-31

2021-05-31

Dollar operated by puppeteer. Forecast as of 31.05.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Some amazing things take place in the market from time to time, and
Forex is facing them again at the end of May. The [EURUSD][1]'s sharp
fall and subsequent surge suggest the pair was manipulated. Let’s
discuss that and make a trading plan.

## Weekly fundamental forecast for dollar

When everyone is selling, there's a perfect opportunity to buy. April's
forecast of 2.9% for the personal consumption expenditures index looked
appalling, but the [EURUSD ][1]'s collapse to 1.213 made me think
someone knew the index would rise further. That's exactly what happened:
the PCE and base inflation grew 3.6% and 3.1%. However, the leading
currency pair soared instead of declining. Could it be manipulation?
Yes, it could. Still, there are so many people who wish to buy euros
that any collapse of quotes is instantly bought out.

Asset managers' net euro buying grew to its highest since 2006 for many
reasons: reversal risks indicate the [EURUSD][1]'s bullish prospects,
Bloomberg experts expect the European GDP will grow faster in 2022 that
its US counterpart, while Deutsche Bank and Citigroup predict the
euro/dollar will hit 1.25 in the nearest months. A short squeeze risk is
rapidly growing, so the bears like Rabobank forecast the [EURUSD][1]
will have fallen to 1.18 by the end of the year as Jerome Powell will
announce QE tapering at Jackson Hole.

### US and Eurozone growth forecasts for 2021-2022



 _Source: Bloomberg._

Financial markets estimate a chance of a federal funds rate hike by 25
basis points next year at 72%. Before raising the rate, the Fed must
scale QE back. There isn't much time left, so the FOMC officials'
statements about phasing out monetary help look like a preventive
measure. The Central Bank is preparing markets for QE taper not to
provoke a panic like in 2013.

At the same time, Deutsche Bank doesn't think the US QE tapering is a
hawkish signal. Neither do I. When quantitative easing ends, the Fed
will continue buying bonds and preventing their yields from growing.
Ten-year bond yields will have risen to 1.9% by the end of 2021 and to
2.17% by the end of 2022, Bloomberg estimates. Quite a moderate rally
and bad [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) for the US dollar.

The question is, how will bond yields behave in the near time? How will
they react to US labor stats? Economists asked by Bloomberg believe non-
farm payrolls will grow by 650 thousand in May. Also, June's and July's
statistics will show whether April's disappointing data was a temporary
notion. If so, the Fed will come closer to ending QE.

### Weekly trading plan for [EURUSD][1]

The [EURUSD][1] roller coaster amid expectations of PCE boost with
subsequent fact-based buying proved the strategies set out in my
previous articles were successful. They can be applied to [short-term
selling][2] targeted at 1.213-1.215 and [medium-term buying][3] on
pullbacks from support at 1.215. What’s next? The pair's return to above
1.222 may give rise to a new bullish attack, but it may well be that the
pair will consolidate ahead of the publication of US labor stats.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. lite.forex/blog/analysts-opinions/what-to-do-with-dollar-forecast-as-of-28052021/
   3. lite.forex/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-pricks-up-its-ears-forecast-as-of-27052021/