+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-31"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (31 May 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (31 May 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-05-31

2021-05-31

Short-term analysis for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 31.05.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Last week the gold price tested the Intermediary Zone 1890-1888 but the
price didn’t break out the zone.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

On Monday morning, the short-term oil uptrend continues. On Friday, the
traders corrected the price to the Additional Zone 66.08 - 65.95. The
price didn’t break out the zone, so look for purchases according to the
pattern with the target at Friday's high (level 67.34).

If the pattern is not found, and a breakout of the zone occurs instead,
there will be an opportunity to start selling with the target in the
Intermediary Zone 64.75 - 64.49.

The Intermediary Zone serves as the short-term uptrend's border.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone 66.08 - 65.95.
TakeProfit: 67.34. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Last week the gold price tested the Intermediary Zone 1890-1888 but the
price didn’t break out the zone. The IZ serves as the border of the
short-term uptrend. It started a buy impulse, within which the
resistance level of 1909 was tested. Thus, one can conclude that the
priority buy pattern in the Intermediary Zone has already yielded
profits. Further growth will depend on traders' ability to break out
level 1909 and consolidate the price above.

If level 1909 is broken out, then the next growth target will be the
Gold Zone 1923 - 1921. If the level of 1909 is held, then a retest of
the trend border will follow.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Watch the market.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

On Friday last week, the short-term euro trend reversed down by breaking
out the Intermediary Zone 1.2178 - 1.2169. However, at the US trading
session, the traders managed to return the price to the opening level of
the day: 1.2093.

At the moment, the traders are testing the resistance zone 1.2229 -
1.2169. It is profitable to look for sell signals and sell the euro in
the beforementioned resistance zone with the target at the lower Target
Zone 1.2090 - 1.2072.

For the euro purchases, the breakout of resistance level 1.2229 and the
price consolidation above are required. In this case, the short-term
trend will reverse up again, and the target for purchases will be the
upper Target Zone 1.2326 - 1.2308.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Open sell positions according to the pattern in 1.2229 - 1.2169.
TakeProfit: Target Zone 1.2090 - 1.2072. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-31052021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-31052021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus