+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-31"
description = "US dollar price forecast 31 May 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 31 May 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=18.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-05-31

2021-05-31

Forex in June: it will be hot! Forecast for EURUSD, GBPUSD, USDJPY,
AUDUSD, USDCAD and USDNOK as of 31.05.2021Dmitri Demidenko

All traders have bad streaks. If they believe that there are no
victories without losses, then the situation will eventually end well.
Let's discuss the market outlook and make up a trading plan for
[EURUSD][1], [GBPUSD][2], [USDJPY][3], [AUDUSD][4], [USDCAD][5], and
[USDNOK][6]

## Monthly G10 currencies fundamental forecast

Statistical analysis with fundamental components over the past 2-3 years
has rarely broken even. I don’t remember when it happened with a loss,
but it had to happen someday. May was an extremely unlucky month for
seasonal patterns' bulls. The US dollar and safe-haven assets fell short
of expectations. The USD went down against the euro and the Swedish
krona, while the [GBPCHF][7] and [AUDJPY][8] sales were also
unsuccessful. Is it worth abandoning a strategy that has been profitable
for years because of one failure? I think no. Use it with extreme
caution, because no one knows whether the difficult period will drag on
or not.

If until 2021 May was a very good month for the US dollar, then in June
the situation usually changed dramatically. Between 1975 and 2020, the
greenback was more likely to weaken than it rallied against the rest of
the G10 currencies, while the Canadian and Australian dollars and
European currencies were among the leaders. The positions of the
Japanese yen were also unprofitable. Seasonal patterns have intensified
over the past 10 years. For example, the last 9 out of 10 times since
2011 the [EURUSD][1] closed June in the green zone.

### Rise-fall periods

 __

_Source: BoE, LiteForex calculations._

Analysis of the averages suggests that there are risks of a major
collapse of the Scandinavian currencies as well as the British pound in
early summer, although according to medians, the US dollar still looks
like the biggest loser in June.

### Averages and medians

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex calculations._

In its worst times, the yen lost 1.3% on average. During the best
periods, the franc strengthened by 2.5%, the pound - by 1.9%, the euro -
by 1.7%, the Australian dollar by 1.6%, and the Canadian dollar - by
1.1%.

### Price dynamics during rise-fall periods

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex calculations._

In my opinion, if the stabilization of the US Treasury bond yields is
delayed, which, in turn, will reduce the risks of falling US stock
indices, then expect a continuation of the USD downtrend. This largely
depends on the reaction of the Treasuries to the US May jobs report.
This report can set the direction of the Forex market for a whole month,
so the interest in it from the side of [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s looks natural. The
disappointing data will discourage the Fed from QE tapering talks and
give reason to buy [GBPUSD][2] and [EURUSD][1]. On the contrary, strong
data will serve as a signal for entering [USDJPY][3] long trades.

The commodity currencies look quite profitable right now. The market
will soon find out if Iranian oil exports will recover in full due to
the lifting of sanctions against Tehran, and when this will happen.
Reducing uncertainty will serve as a signal for [USDCAD][5] and
[USDNOK][6] sales and allow [Brent][9] and [WTI][10] bulls to go ahead.
The reason for entering [AUDUSD][4] longs may be the improvement of
Australia-China relations and (or) the recovery of the iron ore uptrend.

Thus, before the release of the US May jobs report, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s need to
stay cool and make haste slowly.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDJPY&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCAD&returnUrl=true
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDNOK&returnUrl=true
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPCHF&returnUrl=true
   8. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDJPY&returnUrl=true
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=UKBrent_n&returnUrl=true
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USCrude_n&returnUrl=true