+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-09"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 9, 2020

April 9, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.04.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

Oil middle-term uptrend continues. Buy target in the trend is Target
Zone 2 [30.75 – 30.19].

The trend key support is in the range of [23.29 - 22.73]. Expect the
price to enter the zone of good buy prices and look for a pattern to
open long position.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.04.2020][1]

The short-term trend is yet down. The price was being corrected up
yesterday. At the end of the US session, the price approached the trend
key resistance [26.86 – 26.54].

Today, I suggest looking for sell entries according to the pattern in
the zone of [25.81 - 26.86]. The target will be the lower Target Zone
[23.29 – 22.73].

We shall enter purchases when the price breaks out the trend key
resistance and consolidates above. In this case, the target will be the
upper Target Zone [30.35 — 29.72].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.04.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

Sell according to the pattern in the zone of [25.81 - 26.86].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [23.29 - 22.73]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

Gold is now trading above the support at Target Zone 3 [1637.2 –
1631.2]. I recommend considering long entries after the retest of TZ3 or
the trend key support [1589.7 – 1581.3]. The target will in Target Zone
4 [1697.2 - 1691.2].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.04.2020][4]

The price is being corrected down in the short-term uptrend. The
correction target is likely to be the test of Intermediary Zone [1631.4
– 1627.2]. After the zone is tested, one can consider purchases
according to the pattern. The upside target will be the local high.

One could also consider selling gold, but only in the strong resistance
zones. A strong intraday resistance is in Additional Zone [1663.5 —
1661.4].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.04.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1631.4 - 1627.2].
TakeProfit: 1672.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

In the medium-term chart, the EUR/USD is trading in the middle-term
downtrend. The price hasn’t been corrected into Target Zone [1.0957 –
1.0940]. I don’t recommend selling the euro until the price reaches TZ,
expect better prices and a sell pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.04.2020][7]

The EUR/USD is trading in the short-term uptrend. The target in Target
Zone [1.0957 – 1.0940] has not been reached.

Traders were testing Intermediary Zone [1.0839 – 1.0830] yesterday.
There wasn’t a buy pattern yesterday. Therefore, monitor the market
today. If there is a buy signal, buy; if IZ is broken out downside, sell
the EURUSD.

If IZ is broken out, the short-term will reverse down, and the buy
scenario will be canceled. In this case, we shall sell the euro down to
the lower Target Zone [1.0753 — 1.0736].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.04.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.0839 - 1.0830]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.0957 - 1.0940]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. If Intermediary Zone [1.0839 - 1.0830] is broken out, sell. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.0753 - 1.0736]. StopLoss: above the next local high.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 09.04.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_090420_1.png?w=30&s=4af02a748f6ce17fe6f041049d025697
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_090420_2.png?w=30&s=fe98c058345c547a7481f56af540a8c5
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_090420_1.png?w=30&s=8b2cf5043b7cecf279247ffec1e36701
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_090420_2.png?w=30&s=24baf22814db8eb144febc201d8501e3
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_090420_1.png?w=30&s=de39a23c3f92be8be43ca7ab0b823867
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_090420_2.png?w=30&s=6419e360040d870fe37fc1c99e385ed2
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-09042020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-09042020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_79.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=e4605438b903897fec5201a00e95b4c3