+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-09"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 09.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 09.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 9, 2020

April 9, 2020

Euro is looking for a compromiseDmitri Demidenko

## The European Union needs collective assistance

When there is no agreement, there is no success. The 16-hour video
conference of European finance ministers ended with no actual agreement,
which didn’t allow the [EUR/USD][1] bulls to continue the rally even
amid the growth of the US stock indexes. When everyone pulls a blanket
over themselves and tries to prove that it was their state that suffered
the most from the coronavirus, it’s not easy to count on collective
assistance. They have to count on domestic resources, which increases
the debt-to-GDP ratio and puts even more pressure on the euro-area
economy that is already weak.

The divisions among the euro-area finance ministers returned the talks
about a breakup of the European Union, which drove Italy’s bond yields
up and widened the spread between the Italian bond yields and their
German peers. However, the discussion on how the €500-billion fiscal
stimulus should be structured will continue, so, the euro’s losses
haven’t become a disaster.



 **Dynamics of Italy’s bond yields**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 09.04.2020][2]

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

While the euro-area governments fail to agree, the ECB has to manage the
situation. François Villeroy de Galhau said the current situation
changed the view on monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). The head of the French central bank
said he could support the idea of the “helicopter money”, that would
transfer the central bank’s money directly to businesses or individuals.
This idea was criticized by more conservative members of the ECB
governing council, such as Germany. Jens Weidmann and his supporters say
the helicopter money would blur the line between monetary and fiscal
[policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/).

The French officials, however, have their reasons. According to the
forecasts of the French central bank, the country’s GDP dropped by 6% in
the first quarter, which could be compared only to the 5.3% recorded
around the strikes of May 1968. And the worst is yet to come! The
second-quarter data are going to be much worse in the euro area.
According to the German top five economic research institutes, the
German GDP will drop by 9.8% in the April-June period, and by 4.2% in
2020. This is the sharpest decline since quarterly national accounts
began in 1970.

 **Dynamics of French GDP**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 09.04.2020][3]

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The U.S. economic outlook is not optimistic either. According to the
median gauge of 57 experts surveyed Wall Street Journal, the US
unemployment rate will be up from the current 4.4% to 13%. The indicator
should be down to 10% by December. The job cuts will be about 14.4
million in 2020, relative to February. The US GDP will shrink by 25% YoY
in the second quarter. Still, nearly 85% of economists expect the
economic recovery will start in the second half of 2020. They expect the
US output to expand by 6.2% in the third quarter and by 6.6% in the
fourth quarter, the overall fall this year will be about 4.9%.

About 45% of Wall Street Journal respondents expect a U-shaped recovery
of the U.S. economy, rather than explosive growth as Donald Trump wants.
Experts see a modest rise of the Dow to 24700 by the end of 2020. This
gauge suggests that increased volatility will continue, which supports
the [EUR/USD][1] bears, who are trying to break out the support at
1.076-1.077 and resume the downtrend.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Euro is looking for a compromise][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/italian-bonds-09-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=72a729938165e5156555f56bd1ed99c1
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/france-gdp-09-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=34a6041fb6072326cf022ee3a2223f4c
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-is-looking-for-a-compromise&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-is-looking-for-a-compromise&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-09-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=b68c26dfd165e2e6fdb9181c682b6ca3