+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-09"
description = "GBP/USD forex forecast for 09.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "GBP/USD forex forecast for 09.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 9, 2020

April 9, 2020

Pound is in two mindsDmitri Demidenko

## Open GBP/USD positions according to the outcomes of the meetings of
OPEC+ and G20

What is better, to stay still or to jump up and down? The GBP used to
try both. In the September-December period, the [GBP/USD][1] pair soared
by 13, following by a 16% drop by mid-March, and now the pair
consolidating in the range of 1.218-1.248. The sterling is rather
responsive to foreign factors, such as the trends for the U.S. dollar
and the US stocks. The [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) about the health of the UK Prime Minister
Boris Johnson, which seems important, was used by large traders to buy
the pound at a cheaper price.

While the greenback’s long-term outlook is quite clear, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s have
many questions in the short- and medium-term investment horizon.
Assuming that the coronavirus story will end in 2020, the USD index
should go down in 2021 amid the US huge budget deficit, cheap liquidity,
and the Fed’s balance sheet. The recovery of the US economy in the
second half of the year will support the S&P 500 growth. The stocks
usually start rising before the recession ends, so the US stock indexes
are rising now even amid a likely peak of the epidemic in the US.
Investors want to buy, but they fear at the same time. The same is with
dollar pairs and the [GBP/USD][1] in exception.

In 2019 the long-term uncertainty was though more important than the
short-term. In 2020, however, everything is vice versa, there are sharp
changes in the volatility spread, and the pound is jumping up and down.

 **Dynamics of GBP/USD volatility spread**

![LiteForex: GBP/USD forex forecast for 09.04.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The forex volatility is likely to be high for a long time ahead, which
supports the greenback. Besides, there many followers of the dollar
smile theory among traders, who believe that the US economy will recover
from the pandemic fallout faster than other world’s countries. This
theory yet doesn’t look real. The median gauge of 57 experts surveyed by
the Wall Street Journal suggests the US GDP will shrink by 25% YoY,
while Capital Economics sees about a 15% loss of the UK GDP.

MUFG suggest a remarkable investment idea, saying that it makes sense to
by the sterling against the euro and the US dollar, as the death rate
from coronavirus will be lower in the UK than in Italy, Spain, and the
USA.

In my opinion, the global stock indexes should start rising if the OPEC+
agrees to cut crude oil output, which the G20 countries will support. In
this case, the shares of the US oil sector should be growing, followed
by the S&P 500. At the same time, the greenback should weaken, and the
[GBP/USD][1] bulls will be able to break out the resistance at
1.248-1.249 and draw the price higher. However, if the officials fail to
reach an agreement, the Brent, the WTI and the stock may well crash. In
this case, one should take the profit from the [GBP longs opened in
March. ][3]

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

![Pound is in two minds][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/sterling-volatility-09-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=cc818888bfc85f9339bce324d9dba630
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/pond-misfortunes-never-come-alone/
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-is-in-two-minds&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-is-in-two-minds&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-gbpusd-09-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1c7b20632c9acf5de02c10a2d6c5e632