+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-09"
description = "Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 9. We continue covering the retracement rules."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 9. We continue covering the retracement rules."
type = "post"
+++

April 13, 2020

April 9, 2020

NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “c” and “d”. Retracement
rule 6. Condition “a”.Mikhail Hypov

## NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Retracement rule 5 - conditions “c”
and “d” to apply it. Retracement rule 6, condition “a”.

Dear friends! Today, I will be covering retracement rules five and six.

If you haven’t read about the NeoWave theory, I strongly reading all the
articles in the NeoWave series, based on Glenn Neely’s book Mastering
Elliott Wave, starting from the first one:

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][1]

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels ][2]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][3]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][5]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][6]

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][7]

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][8]

### Rule 5

First, I’d like to remind you that rule 5 applies when m2 is moving in
the opposite direction relative to m1, and m2 should be at least 100%
but less than 161.8%. After measuring the relation between m0 and m1,
pick up one of the below conditions and mark the waves with the relevant
structure labels.

### Condition (c). m0 is between 161.8% and 261.8% (inclusive) of m1

1\. If m3 is between 61.8-161.8% of m1 (inclusive), and m2 is less than
61.8% of m0, and m4 greater or equal to m2, and m4 or the group of waves
m4 through m6 is equal or more than m0, m1 can be the first segment of
any variation of an irregular flat or a running triangle pattern.
Therefore, place ":F3" at the end of m1.

2\. If m3 is between 101%-161.8% of m2, there is hardly any chance of an
expanding triangle; place ":c3" at the end of m1.

3\. If m2 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount
of time (or less) that it took to form, and ****m(-1) is shorter than
m0, and m0, when compared to m(-2) and m2, is not the shortest of the
three, and ****m(-1) and m1 share some of the same price range, and
****the price approaches (or exceeds) the beginning of m(-2) in a period
of time which is not more than half of that consumed by m(-2) through
m2, m2 might complete a terminal pattern. So, add “(:sL3)” to the
structure list to indicate this possibility. Remember, I explained the
difference between the terminal and trend patterns in the[second article
][2]of the NeoWave series.

4\. If m3 is less than 61.8% of m2, waves m1 and m3 share some of the
same price range, and ****m4 is shorter than m2, and ****m4 (plus one
time unit) is completely retraced faster than it took to form with the
market approaching (or exceeding) the beginning of m0 in a period of
time which is or less than that taken to form the group of waves m0
through m4, then m4 may complete a terminal pattern m4. Place ":c3" at
the end of m1.

5\. If ml (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount
of time (or less) that it took to form, and m2 is close to 161.8% of m1,
and m2 is retraced less than 61.8% and m(-l ) is at least 61.8% of m0,
and m(-2) is between 61.8%-161.8% of m(-1), and m(-3) is between
61.8%-161.8% of m(-2), and the total length of the group of waves of m2
through m4 is longer than m0, m1 may conclude a contracting triangle.
Add ":L3" to the structure list.

6\. If ml (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount
of time (or less) that it took to form, and m1 is about 61.8% of m0, but
m1 is no more than 161.8% of m(-1), and m2 is very close to 161.8% of
m1, and m2 is retraced less than 61.8% and the combined price coverage
of m2 through m4 is longer than m0, m1 may complete a flat pattern. And
so, you should add ":L5" to the structure list.

7. If none of the above conditions is met, place “:F3” at the end of m1.

Let us see how rule 5 (c) works on the example.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 9. We
continue covering the retracement rules.][9]

First, we check if the current market situation meets the requirements
of the (c) condition of rule 5. Wave m2 is moving in the opposite
direction to m1, and m2 is in the range of 100% - 161.8% of m1. So, the
requirements of rule 5 are fulfilled.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 9. We
continue covering the retracement rules.][10]

m0 is not more than m1. So, the (c) condition of rule 5 applies to our
case.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 9. We
continue covering the retracement rules.][11]

m3 is between 100% and 161.8% (inclusive) of m1.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 9. We
continue covering the retracement rules.][12]

And m2 is less than 61.8% of m0.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 9. We
continue covering the retracement rules.][13]

And m4 (the red area in the chart) is much greater than m2 (the blue
area), and m4 is a little more than m0 (the green area), then the first
paragraph of rule 5 (c) is relevant in our case. So, m1 is likely to be
the first segment of any variation of an irregular flat or a running
triangle. So, we place “:F3” at the end of m1.

### Condition (d). m0 is more than 261.8% of m1

1\. If m2 is a polywave and is composed of more than three monowaves,
place “:F3” at the end of m1.

2\. If m2 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount
of time (or less) that it took to form, and m(-2) is shorter than m0,
and after m2 finishes, the price approaches (or exceeds) the beginning
of m(-2) within 50% (or less) of the time taken to form the group of
waves m(-2)–m2, m2 may conclude a third extension terminal pattern. Add
“(:sL3)” to the structure list.

3\. If m3 is less than 61.8% of m2, and ****m1 and m3 share some of the
same price range, and ****m4 is shorter than m2, and ****m4 is
completely retraced faster than it took to form, the beginning of m0 is
reached faster than it took to form the group of waves m0 – m4, m4 may
complete a terminal pattern. So, place “:c3” at the end of m1.

4\. If m3 is less than 61.8%  of m2, and the combined price coverage of
the group of waves m2-m4 is larger and they consume less time (their
movement is more vertical) than m0's, and ****m(-1) is at least 61.8% of
m0, there is a small chance that m1 completes a contracting triangle.
So, add "(:L3)" to m1’s structure list.

5\.  If m3 is less than 61.8% of m2, the total length of the group of
waves m2–m4 is larger and their movement is more vertical than m0’s, and
m(-1) is approximately equal to m0, and m1 takes more time than m(-1)
and m1, there is a small chance that m1 concludes a “severe” c-failure
flat. Add “[:L5]” to the structure list. I will cover complex patterns,
such as a “sever” c-failure flat in my next articles.

6\. If m3 is between 61.8% of 100% of m2, m4 is less than 61.8% of m0,
and m1 takes less time than m0, m1 is likely to be an x-wave in a
complex correction. Place “x:c3” at the end of m1.

7\. If m3 is between 61.8% -100% of m2, and ****m4 is 61.8% of m0 (or
more), put ":F3" at the end of m1.

8\. If m3 is less than 61.8% of m2, place ":F3/:c3" at the end of m1.

9\.  If m3 is at least 61.8% of m1 but less than 100% of m2, and ****m4
is equal or longer than m2, and m4 (or the group of waves of m4 through
m6), without breaking beyond the end of m3, is at least 61.8% **** of
m0, m1 can well be the first leg of an irregular failure flat. Place
":F3" at the end of m1.

10\. If none of the above conditions is met, place “:F3” at the end of
m1.

Let us see how rule 5 (d) works on an example.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 9. We
continue covering the retracement rules.][14]

First, we shall check if the current market situation corresponds to the
criteria of the (d) condition of the retracement rule 5.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 9. We
continue covering the retracement rules.][15]

The length of m0 is obviously more than 261.8% of m1. So, condition (d)
of rule 5 is relevant in our case.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 9. We
continue covering the retracement rules.][16]

As m3 is at least 61,8% (it actually is a little more than 100%) of m1,
m3 is also shorter than m2,

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 9. We
continue covering the retracement rules.][17]

m4 is many times longer than m2, and the group of waves m4 through m6
doesn’t exceed the end of m3, and m4 is much longer than 61.8% of m0,
the ninth paragraph of the (d) condition is relevant. It means m1 is
likely to be the first leg of an irregular failure flat. So, we put
“:F3” at the end of m1.

### Rule 6

The retracement rule 6 states that m2 is moving in the opposite
direction to m1, and m2 is between 161.8% and 261.8% (inclusive) of m1.
After measuring the relation of m0 to m1, we pick up one or several of
the below conditions and mark the waves with the corresponding structure
labels.

### Condition (a). m0 is less than 100% of m1.

This condition covers two cases when m2 is composed of three or fewer
monowaves or m2 contains more than three monowaves.

### If m2 is a polywave and is composed of more than three monowaves.

1\. If the first three monowaves of m2 do not ****retrace more than
61.8% of m1, a сomplex сorrection may be starting with the first or
second monowave (immediately after the end of m1), moving in the
opposite direction of m1, representing the x-wave. In an alternative
scenario, m1 contains a "missing" x-wave in its center or m1 is the
third wave of a 5th-failure impulse pattern (trending or terminal). So,
place ":5/:s5" at the end of m1

Considering the situation with the missing x-wave, circle the center of
m1 and place “:5?” to the left of the circle, and “F3?” - the right.

The case with the end of complex correction will be confirmed
immediately before the point when the market sharply turns (in the
opposite direction of m1), and m2 is more than 61.8% of m1.

2. If the first three monowaves of m2 are more than 61.8% of m1, m1 may
complete the a-wave of a flat with a complex b-waveю. Or m1 may conclude
the third wave of a 5th failure impulse pattern. In this case, place
“:F3/:5” at the end of m1.

### If m2 is a polywave and is composed of three monowaves or less.

1. If m3 is at least 61.8% of m2, place “:L5” at the end of m1. If m(-2)
and m0 share some of the same price area in this case, add “:L3” to the
structure list.

2. If m1 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the time period
that is no longer than that took to form, m1 may be the final segment of
a trending impulse pattern. Place “:L5” at the end of m1.

3. If m1 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount
of time (or less) that it took to form, and m3 is shorter than m2, and
m2 (or the group of waves of m2 through m4) approaches (or exceeds) the
beginning of m(-3) within the time, which is 50% (or less) of that taken
by the group of waves of m(-3) through m1, and m0 and m(-2) share some
of the same price territory, then m1 may the final segment of a terminal
Impulse pattern; add "(:L3)" to the Structure list of m1.

If, under the above conditions, m4 is between 61.8%-100% (exclusive) of
m2, and ":L3" is used as the preferred Structure label, m2 is likely to
be an x-wave, or m1 may complete a terminal pattern within a triangle of
a higher degree. In this case, place "x:c3?" at the end of m2.

4.  If m1 is completely retraced slower than it took to form, and ****m2
does not exceed the end of m(-2), and ****m(-1) is at least 61.8% ****of
m1, and ****m(-2) is shorter than m(-1), then m1 is likely to be an
a-wave of a flat pattern. In this case, m0 would be an x-wave. So, place
“x:c3?” at the end of m0, and “:F3” - at the end of m1.

Let us see how rule 6 (a) works on the example.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 9. We
continue covering the retracement rules.][18]

First, let’s check if the current market situation corresponds to the
(a) condition of rule 6. m2 is a little more than 161.8% of m1. So, the
cafeteria of rule 6 are met.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 9. We
continue covering the retracement rules.][19]

m0 is about a half (that is less than 100%) of m1. So, our case refers
to the (a) condition of rule 6.

![LiteForex: Overview of NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 9. We
continue covering the retracement rules.][20]

As m3 is at least 61.8% of m2, we place “:L5” at the end of m1. This
possibility is confirmed by the fact that m1 (the start is marked with
the pink horizontal line) is completely retraced in the time period that
is no longer than that it took to form m1 (red and green areas).
Therefore, m1 can be the final segment of a trend impulse pattern.

In our example, m(-2) and m0 share some price territory, and so, we add
“:L3” to m1’s structure list. This possibility is confirmed by the fact
that m1 (the start is marked with the pink horizontal line) is
completely retraced in the time equal to (or less) that it took to form
(red and green areas), m3 is shorter than m2, and m2 (or the group of
waves m2–m4) reaches (or exceeds) the beginning of m(-3) in the time
period that is no longer than 50% of that it took to form the wave group
m(-3)–m1, and waves m0 and m(-2) share some of the price territory. So,
m1 could complete a terminal impulse pattern.

That is all for today. The next article will continue covering the
retracement rule 6.

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][21]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][22] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “c” and “d”.
Retracement rule 6. Condition “a”.][23]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b/
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.08/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=de7e48bf0bc8b15db15bd1b3a17b6435
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.08/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=e81e9891ceb494099ced11194c850526
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.08/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=5fae559e6fda5213e8aa06173d11025d
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.08/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=23828386a3602eb3b05d00927926771e
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.08/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=f2c5dd4566b267dac5bb942afdaefe69
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.08/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=4a6cad3352db126d2c0f94299859f911
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.08/BTCUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=9c0f4aa144aad94a64477bb676be0f31
   16. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.08/BTCUSD_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=9e62b1e0b45dbfb89658023065a36d05
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.08/BTCUSD_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=9621a4c87c756c1145a30f09f3cb9e16
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.08/BTCUSD_hypov_10.jpg?w=30&s=dfd181d2675a4ac210e8e52e480c5d01
   19. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.08/BTCUSD_hypov_11.jpg?w=30&s=f0cc66093cc8f2b03e92372f4e7f037b
   20. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.08/BTCUSD_hypov_12.jpg?w=30&s=72e519073952bbab9526921a72dd5564
   21. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   22. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   23. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.08/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=b1c62121f5e31d4bce3b6e7a0c16d2f9