+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-22"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (22 September 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (22 September 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-22

2020-09-22

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 22.09.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The EURUSD broke through the local low of September 17 yesterday in the
short-term downtrend. The primary sell target has not been reached yet.
The downside target is Target Zone [1.1717 - 1.1697].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

In the longer timeframe of the oil price chart, Target Zone 5 [41.67 –
40.92] is again the strong resistance to the middle-term uptrend.
Sellers went ahead yesterday after the zone test.

There is also a 1-2-3 pattern to buy oil. The upside target is the high
of August. The price was yesterday corrected to the 50% level. I
recommend holding the purchases entered at the level to entering new
ones at the current prices. After the high of last week is broken
through, we can move the purchases to the breakeven.

Let us analyze the short-term chart. The H1 chart indicates that the oil
short-term trend is up. The buy target is in Target Zone [42.85 -
42.23]. The price was yesterday corrected down to the zone of [40.10 –
38.45]. In the previous analytics, I recommended buying according to the
pattern form this zone.

Today, we expect a buy pattern and buy oil after it emerges. It will be
relevant to sell oil when the price breaks out the trend key support
[38.72 – 38.45] and consolidates below.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in the zone of [40.10 - 38.45]. TakeProfit:
Target Zone [42.85 - 42.23]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

The first sell target for the positions that I recommended opening
yesterday and earlier has been reached. The support level 1902.9 has
been tested. One should close a part of sell trades. The rest of the
sell position should be moved to the breakeven and holding up to the
next target, level 1862.3.

The short-term gold trend is still down. The price yesterday reached the
primary sell target Intermediary Zone [1957.7 – 1953.0]. The price
tested Target Zone [1899.4 – 1890.1]. Next, the buyers reacted to the
test of the zone.

Today, I recommend entering new trades according to the pattern in the
zone of good sell prices [1933.4 - 1905.5]. The target will be breaking
through the yesterday’s low and reaching Gold Zone [1852.9 – 1848.2].

It is not yet relevant to buy.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in the zone of [1933.4 - 1905.5].
TakeProfit: 1883.0, Gold Zone [1852.9 - 1848.2]. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro/dollar medium-term trend is turning down. The price is now
trying to break through the critical level of 1.1752 drawn across the
low of September 9. If the price consolidates below the level, we shall
sell the euro with a target at Target Zone 2 [1.1611 — 1.1591].

The EURUSD broke through the local low of September 17 yesterday, the
short-term trend is down. The primary sell target has not been reached
yet. It is Target Zone [1.1717 - 1.1697].

For today, I recommend holding sell trades entered according to the
double top pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1847 - 1.1837] at the
breakeven. It will be relevant to enter new shorts on the correction up
to Additional Zone [1.1786 - 1.1781] and Intermediary Zone [1.1841 —
1.1831].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Hold sell trades entered in Intermediary Zone [1.1847 - 1.1837].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1717 - 1.1697]. StopLoss: at breakeven

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-22092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-22092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus