+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-10"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (10 December 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (10 December 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-10

2020-12-10

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 10.12.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The gold price has rebounded from the resistance [1850 — 1890].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil is now testing the trendline on the long-term chart. If the price
breaks out the trendline and consolidates below, we could sell oil in
the correction with the target at 43.78 and the trend key support [41.81
– 41.34].

If there is a Price Action pattern to buy, we shall enter long trades
with the target at Target Zone 3 [49.32 — 48.81].

The short-term oil trend is up. Traders were testing Additional Zone
[45.38 – 45.26], a strong support zone, yesterday. The zone was not
broken out despite the negative [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) on the crude oil inventories.

Today, we shall monitor the buyers’ reaction and the trendline breakout
in the H1 chart to enter short-term purchases with the target at the
high of December 4 + Gold Zone [47.38 – 47.14].

An alternative scenario to sell oil. I will be relevant if the price
consolidates below AZ. The downside target will the trend key support
[44.19 — 43.95].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [45.38 - 45.26].
TakeProfit: 46.53. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

The medium-term gold downtrend continues. Yesterday, the sellers reacted
to the test of the resistance zone [1850 – 1890]. We continue holding
medium-term sell trades or entering new ones. The major downside targets
are the low of November + Target Zone 3 [1736.4 — 1727.1].

The short-term gold trend is up. Yesterday, sellers broke out the
trendline, and the price reached Intermediary Zone [1825.2 – 1820.2].

The buyers reacted to the zone, the price bounced up from the level.
However, there is no pattern to buy gold.

There are tow trading scenarios for today:

  1. Sell in the correction in Additional Zone [1853.0 - 1850.4].

  2. Buy in the trend in Intermediary Zone [1825.2 - 1820.2].

Enter trades according to your analysis and trading strategy.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1853.0 - 1850.4]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1825.2 - 1820.2]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1825.2 - 1820.2]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1890.8 - 1879.3]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD is trading in a medium-term uptrend. Traders are testing the
trendline now. Bears are trying to consolidate the price below the
support level. If they succeed, the price could be corrected deeper,
down to the trend key support [1.1993 — 1.1975].

Let us analyze the short-term chart. The short-term uptrend continues.

Yesterday, the price reached Intermediary Zone [1.2085 – 1.2076], the
trend key support. The price is now trading close to the zone. We expect
a buy pattern. The pattern will form if the buyers go ahead, and the
price breaks out the resistance level (the sloped green line in the
chart).

Otherwise, if the US session closes the price below IZ, the euro short-
term trend will turn down. If so, we shall sell the euro with the target
at the lower Target Zone [1.1993 — 1.1975].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.2085 - 1.2076].
TakeProfit: 1.2175, Target Zone 2 [1.2232 - 1.2209]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-10122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-10122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus