+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-29"
description = "Euro price forecast 29 March 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 29 March 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=26.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-29

2021-03-29

Euro sees no light. Forecast as of 29.03.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The divergence in the epidemiological situation and economic expansion
in the US and euro area creates a solid foundation for the EURUSD
downtrend. Will the pair find support or continue falling? Let us
discuss the Forex outlook and make up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

The euro hasn’t found support even though there are several positive
factors. Germany IFO Business Climate index increased, which suggests
Germany’s economy to strengthen despite a surge in coronavirus cases.
The [S&P 500][2] returned to the zone of all-time highs. This situation
is another evidence that the [EURUSD][1] bulls are in a panic. The euro
could end March with the worst result since mid-2020, and there is no
light in the dark clouds.

The major driver for the [EURUSD][1] downtrend is the divergence in the
epidemiological situation. The US should return to normal within the
next few months, while Europe fails to effectively manage the pandemic.
Germany warns that the third coronavirus wave could be the worst in
Europe, suggesting the return to curfew. At the beginning of the year,
the EU governments planned to vaccinate 70% of the population by the end
of the summer, but, as Christine Lagarde ironically noted, the summer
may not end on September 21.

As a result, [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) traders are at their most bearish on the euro since
July, and the gap between German and US 10-year yields is the widest in
a year, which forces the capital outflow from Europe into the USA,
pressing down the [EURUSD][1].

### Dynamics of German-US 10-year yield gap

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg._

The euro is pressed down not only by the coronavirus but also by the
weaker yuan and the absence of the European recovery fund project
ratification by the German Constitutional Court.

After growth in eight months out of nine from April to December last
year, Renminbi weakened in February and featured the worst performance
in a year in March. Investors are concerned about a potential resumption
of the US-China trade war. China has fulfilled only one-third of its
promises under the trade deal signed with Donald Trump and shows that it
is now afraid of Joe Biden. In response to retaliatory measures from the
West, China imposed sanctions on the United States and Canada and signed
a 25-year cooperation agreement with Iran, thereby challenging the
United States. The US forbids other countries to buy oil from Tehran,
but Beijing ignores this instruction. The yuan is falling in price,
discouraging the [EURUSD][1] bulls.

### Dynamics of euro and yuan



 _Source_ _: Trading Economics._

Germany’s constitutional court said that the president may not sign off
on legislation ratifying the European Union’s Recovery Fund due to
urgent appeals from certain political parties in the country alleging
that it violates European treaties by opening the door to joint
borrowing by member states. After the ECB Chief Economist, Philip Lane,
noted that the euro-area economic recovery is highly dependent on fiscal
[policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), it is clear how important the fund is for the currency bloc and
the euro.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Therefore, the [EURUSD][1] bulls are in a difficult situation. There are
too many negative factors in the euro area, and the pair’s inability to
consolidate at the new red line of 1.18 could continue sell-offs. Nordea
Markets suggests the euro is heading to $1.15. In my opinion, if the
pair breaks out the support at 1.176, it can continue falling to 1.172
and 1.168.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true