+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-11-08"
description = "US dollar price forecast 8 November 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 8 November 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-11-08

2021-11-08

Dollar faces side effects. Forecast as of 08.11.2021Dmitri Demidenko

What is more dangerous, illness or cure? The global economy and
financial markets are facing the side effects of stimulating measures,
which prevents central banks from monetary normalization. How will this
affect the [EURUSD][1]? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a
trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

The current situation in the global economy, facing a real threat of
stagflation, is a side effect of the huge fiscal and monetary stimulus.
The $6-trillion support in the US resulted in consumer spending
exceeding its pre-pandemic levels by 9%, triggering supply chain
disruptions and high inflation. US consumer prices in October may
accelerate to 5.8%, the highest level since 1990. Similar processes are
taking place around the world, putting central banks in an extremely
difficult position.

If regulators act slowly, inflation will continue to rise, and higher
prices and wages will fuel each other. If central banks start raising
rates aggressively, it will hinder the economic recovery in a world of
high debt. Central banks simply do not know what to do, which creates
turmoil in financial markets and sometimes unpredictable movements of
exchange rates. For example, the market situation resulting from the
publication of the US jobs report for October could seem unexpected.
Employment rose by 531,000, outperforming the forecasts of Bloomberg
experts; unemployment fell to 4.6%, and the average wages jumped by 4.9%
Y-o-Y. Average wages have grown by an average of 2.9% over the past 15
years, and its current change signals higher risks of further inflation
rise.

### Dynamics of employment and unemployment in USA

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

First, the US strong jobs data sent the [EURUSD][1] down to 16-month
lows. Next, the price rebounded amid exiting shorts, the continuous
rally of US stock indexes, and a drop in the Treasury yields. The rally
in the [S&P 500][2] indicates a high risk appetite, encouraging
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s to sell safe-haven assets, including greenbacks. Historically,
the spike in real yields is negative for the US dollar, although at
present, according to Deutsche Bank, this is not the case. The fact is
that since the beginning of the pandemic, households have accumulated
excess savings of $5.6 trillion, including $2.6 trillion in the USA.
Amid zero interest rates on bank deposits, this money is poured into
bond funds, which pushes the securities price up and the yield down.

### Dynamics of US real bond yield

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

However, old rules remain in place on the short-term investment horizon,
suggesting a drop in the Treasury yields is a bearish factor for the
greenback. The US dollar is the weakest against the yen and gold, but
the euro has also strengthened amid the trends in the US bond market.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Therefore, huge stimulus creates imbalances in the global economy and
financial markets because of excessive consumer demand and savings. It
is especially acute in the short term. In the medium and long term,
nothing really changes. The US labour market is recovering fast, the
inflation remains high, so the Fed will have to raise the rates three
times in 2022. Thus, the [EURUSD][1] downtrend should continue, and it
will be relevant to sell the pair at least until it rises above 1.161.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the authorâ€™s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true