+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-07"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 07.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 07.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 7, 2020

April 7, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 07.04.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

The target for oil purchases in the middle-term uptrend is at Target
Zone 2 [30.75 - 30.19]. The trend key support is now in the range of
[23.29 – 22.73]. Expect the price correction sown to this zone and look
for a pattern to enter buy trades.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 07.04.2020][1]

The short-term oil trend is up. The trade session opened with a gap, in
Intermediary Zone [26.09 – 25.81], yesterday. The buyers reacted
immediately, but the price was back to the key support at the US
session.

The price is now trading a little higher than the support. The uptrend
continues.

Today, I recommend looking for a pattern and entering purchases with a
target around the high of last week + Target Zone 2 [30.75 — 30.19].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 07.04.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [26.09 - 25.81]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [30.75 - 30.19]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules. 

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Target Zone [23.29 - 22.73]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [30.75 - 30.19]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules. 

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

Gold buyers broke out the strong resistance Target Zone 3 [1637.2 –
1631.2] trading in the medium-term uptrend. Now, the buy target is
Target Zone 4 [1697.2 — 1691.2].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 07.04.2020][4]

Let us switch to the shorter timeframe to analyze the short-term gold
trend.

The local gold trend is up. The price reached Target Zone [1660.1 –
1651.8] yesterday. The US session closed the price within the zone, so
the resistance hasn’t yet been broken out.

The price will rise higher after it is consolidated above Target Zone.
If so, the target will be Gold Zone [1697.7 – 1693.5].

Today, I recommend looking for purchases in the strong support zones on
the correction. The trend key support is at [1631.4 — 1627.2].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 07.04.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1631.4 - 1627.2].
TakeProfit: 1672.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EUR/USD downtrend continues. The price is now trading a little
higher than the strong support Target Zone 2 [1.0803 - 1.0786]. It is
now relevant to enter sell trades at good prices with the target to
break through the low of this week. The best prices to sell, according
to the methodology, are in the zone of the trend key resistance [1.0957
— 1.0940].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 07.04.2020][7]

The local trend is down. The price is now being corrected and getting
close to the trend border [1.0863 - 1.0854]. Expect the zone test, look
for a pattern and sell the euro/dollar with a target at the yesterday’s
low.

Alternative scenario: buy the eurusd after Intermediary Zone is broken
out upside. In this case, the buy target will be in the upper Target
Zone [1.0957 — 1.0940].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 07.04.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.0863 - 1.0854].
TakeProfit: 1.0770, Gold Zone 2 [1.0717 - 1.0708]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 07.04.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_070420_1.png?w=30&s=04e318315e7fb4a9aad6793c64c45799
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_070420_2.png?w=30&s=2b1141b4c8c40598b3e127d54c2e25ff
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_070420_1.png?w=30&s=05cd1ba90f701d0c7fecbe94f397874c
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_070420_2.png?w=30&s=7843ba8f56f303947f4f47cf72d17896
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_070420_1.png?w=30&s=e8c56741e23500711d7ca213576d1bb9
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_070420_2.png?w=30&s=e985aff0f6350577588fbe65753a9275
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-07042020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-07042020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_132.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=f8d29d6468758454c17766e37e560d58