+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-07"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 07.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 07.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 7, 2020

April 7, 2020

What does dollar mean?Dmitri Demidenko

## The USD drop will mean a soon victory over the coronavirus

May those who are now selling the [EUR/USD][1] be called the enemies of
humanity? I think, yes! Many analysts believe the greenback is the
better indicator of the global economy’s state that the VIX or FRA-OIS.
The Bank for International Settlements calls the USD rate a key
indicator of bank risk. When the financial establishments rushed to get
funding in mid-March, the USD was growing for 10 consecutive days. The
US dollar is strengthening following a horrible report on the US jobless
claims, and BofA Merrill Lynch says the drop of the USD index below 96
will mean that the global economic problems resulted from the
coronavirus are likely to have ended.

Obviously, the changes in the greenback value are closely correlated
with the pandemic. However, the improvement in the epidemiological
situation supports the US stock indexes. The S&P 500, on April 6, was 7%
up and reached the highest level since mid-March after it was announced
that the situation in New York had stabilized, the number of infected in
Italy, Spain, and France had declined, and forecasts of mortality in the
U.S. had fallen from 176,000 to 82,000. At the peak of the epidemic, the
death toll per day may be 2644, down from 3130 previously expected.

Large banks are warning about the US economy sliding down into a
recession (they are joined by Credit Suisse, which says the US GDP will
be 33.5% down in the second quarter, and it will contract by 5% in
2020). Nevertheless, Bloomberg Economics' global GDP tracker signals
that the global recession may not be so strong as it was in 2008. The
reason is likely to be the immediate reaction of the central banks and
governments to the coronavirus outbreak. The decisions on the monetary
and fiscal stimuli all over the world have never before been taken so
fast as now.

 **Dynamics of global GDP and Bloomberg global GDP tracker**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 07.04.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The euro-area finance ministers will seek to agree on an additional
assistance program of around half a trillion euros. The current fiscal
stimulus is about 3% of the euro-area GDP. The ECB has boosted the QE
volume by €750 billion, and it bought bonds worth €30.2 billion in the
week ended April 3. A substantial part of them (€11.9 billion) included
Italy’s bonds. As a result, the ECB balance sheet is gradually
expanding.

 **Dynamics of ECB balance sheet**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 07.04.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The U.S. stock market can be supported not only by the monetary and
fiscal stimulus but by the assistance provided to particular companies.
The rally of the oil-producing companies’ shares resulted due to Donald
Trump’s actions. The U.S. president is doing his utmost to make the
OPEC+ agree on the oil production cut by 10-15 barrels per day at its
emergence summit on April 9. Otherwise, he threatens Russia and Saudi
Arabia to boost import tariffs.

The growth of the S&P 500, Brent and WTI has discouraged the euro
sellers. If the stock and oil markets continue trading up, and the
[EUR/USD][1] breaks out the resistance at 1.084, the pair will be more
likely to go up to 1.091 and 1.0965.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![What does dollar mean?][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/global-gbp-07-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=5394d3d06341c4f3bb301dd4d5fdb791
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/balance-ecb-07-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=c4d49a317b18aa678ce0b3a321833d25
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=what-does-dollar-mean&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=what-does-dollar-mean&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-07-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=aa03b9342312b3854e18135e23546409