+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-07"
description = "Fundamental and technical analysis of Malaysian Ringgit to US Dollar. Estimation of impact of global crisis and coronavirus"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Fundamental and technical analysis of Malaysian Ringgit to US Dollar. Estimation of impact of global crisis and coronavirus"
type = "post"
+++

April 7, 2020

April 7, 2020

Malaysian ringgit . How will the crisis affect the national currency of
Malaysia?Mikhail Hypov

##  **Malaysian ringgit: fundamental analysis, technical analysis.
COVID-19, wave structure, trend analysis, oil correlation analysis,
actual scenario considering pivot points and annual candlestick
projections.**

Дорогие друзья,

Dear friends,

We’ve become witnesses to an unfolding international crisis. Still, not
everyone is equally affected, even with globalization considered.
Obviously, those countries that managed to escape the pandemic and whose
economies are less dependent on global production chains are the
gainers.

###  **Fundamental analysis**

### Amid the unfolding tragedy, the economy of Malaysia and the
Malaysian ringgit are an interesting object for analysis.

![LiteForex: Fundamental and technical analysis of Malaysian Ringgit to
US Dollar.  Estimation of impact of global crisis and coronavirus][1]

![LiteForex: Fundamental and technical analysis of Malaysian Ringgit to
US Dollar.  Estimation of impact of global crisis and coronavirus][2]

According to Outbreak.my, the Malaysian government localized the virus
successfully and cancelled the Italian and Spanish scenario.   According
to the data above, over a half of the detected cases are localized in
three states:  Selangor, Kuala Lumpur and Johor. Adequate and timely
measures to close external borders and restrict movement inside the
country proved to be efficient and prevented the pandemic from spreading
without taking tough punitive actions. The operation of small and
medium-sized businesses was suspended, but a total lockdown wasn’t
introduced. Food stores continue working, both hypermarkets and small
shops like 7-Eleven. Banks, pharmacies, hospitals, emergency and
telephony services, and other service companies work as well.

In other words, the quarantine here is soft, which allows avoiding
economic chaos and keeping a positive mindset despite the pandemic.

The highly developed public health system and hospital equipment in
Malaysia are worth a mention too. The country boasts a high level of
medical tourism.

In 2014, Malaysia ranked the first on the list of top countries for
medical tourism, according to the Nomad Capitalist consulting firm. In
2020, even before the pandemic of COVID-19 broke out, the experts
estimated prospective profits from this business at $3.2 billion.
Ironically, Malaysia may even benefit from the pandemic and gain a huge
flow of medical tourists when the borders have been opened again.

![LiteForex: Fundamental and technical analysis of Malaysian Ringgit to
US Dollar.  Estimation of impact of global crisis and coronavirus][3]

The chart above shows that coronavirus deaths are decreasing in the
country.![LiteForex: Fundamental and technical analysis of Malaysian
Ringgit to US Dollar.  Estimation of impact of global crisis and
coronavirus][4]

At the same time, the number of new cases isn’t growing while the number
of recovered people (green area) has exceeded the number of new cases.
On the whole, based on those data we may conclude that the
epidemiological picture in Malaysia is quite good and the scenario is
quite positive. There’s a strong possibility that the quarantine will be
lifted as early as 15th April. When it comes to economic support
measures, the Malaysian government has been reserved and limited the
support package to 11 billion Myr, which is 0.7% of GDP, approximately.

The relief measures have been aimed mostly at SMEs and provision of
affordable loan interest rates from 3.5% to 7% so far. Besides COVID-19,
it’s the fall of oil prices that clobbers the economy of Malaysia too.
Thirty % of the country’s whole budget comes from Petronas, the national
oil and gas company. This fact considered, the Malaysian economy is
still much dependent on oil prices.

![LiteForex: Fundamental and technical analysis of Malaysian Ringgit to
US Dollar.  Estimation of impact of global crisis and coronavirus][5]

The chart above confirms this statement. The blue chart is the price of
USD to MYR and the orange chart is the price of Brent. It’s obvious that
these two charts are correlated.  On the other hand, there’s a 70%
dependence of the price of petrol on the price of oil, so petrol grew 2
times cheaper, which is a good relief measure for SMEs.

The government plays quite an important role in economy here. When 1 oil
barrel cost over 60 USD, the government would subsidize prices at petrol
stations and thus save the production of goods and services whose added
value mostly comes from cargo transportation.

###  **Technical analysis**

### ![LiteForex: Fundamental and technical analysis of Malaysian Ringgit
to US Dollar.  Estimation of impact of global crisis and coronavirus][6]

I’d like to note that the government’s role isn’t limited solely to
regulating oil prices. The chart above shows the Central bank of
Malaysia maintained the rate of ringgit in the period from 1998 to 2005.
Such policies blur the global wave structure. ![LiteForex: Fundamental
and technical analysis of Malaysian Ringgit to US Dollar.  Estimation of
impact of global crisis and coronavirus][7]

Despite that fact, the wave structure is quite clear on the 3-month time
frame. The chart above shows that the 5-wave bullish impulse of super
cycles starts in the 80s. The third wave is very long, so the fifth wave
may be truncated and limited by the peak of the third wave that is
located at the [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) high of 4.775 MYR.![LiteForex: Fundamental and
technical analysis of Malaysian Ringgit to US Dollar.  Estimation of
impact of global crisis and coronavirus][8]

If we analyse the weekly time frame, we will also see a bullish impulse
with a long third wave just like on the previous time frame (green wave
structure), which allows us supposing the local wave structure will end
near the peak of the third wave of 2016.![LiteForex: Fundamental and
technical analysis of Malaysian Ringgit to US Dollar.  Estimation of
impact of global crisis and coronavirus][9]

To estimate an eventual scenario of the future movement, I’ve built the
projection of the annual TM candle - the black rectangle. We see that
the price chart has already crossed the limits of the projection, which
is a sign of strong overboughtness. So, there’s a very weak chance that
the USD/MRY will grow above 4.48 this year.

On the other hand, the support line of 4.20 is clearly seen. The price
isn’t likely to drop below this level.

Most probably, the price of USD/MYR will have consolidated in the range
of 4.48 - 4.20 by the end of the year. Then, the price may grow to 4.54
MYR next year (the peak of the third wave of the inserted 5-wave
impulse, marked in blue), the level of the third wave’s peak in the wave
structure of a higher degree (marked in green).

The growth peak of USD/MYR is in the area of 4.54 - 4.77. The pair is
unlikely to update its [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) maximum during the current super
cycle. Fundamentally, the fall of the ringgit’s price is justified
because the oil price [won’t recover][10] to its value seen prior to the
crisis, according to preliminary estimates.  At the same time, soft
devaluation of the national currency will allow the economy to recover
faster, become even more attractive for development of tourism and boost
the competitiveness of exports.

 _I’d like to remind you that all materials are provided for educational
purposes only. They aren’t financial advice and don’t guarantee any
profits. All trading decisions you make are your responsibility only._

* * *

Take care of yourself and your money!

Subscribe and keep in touch!

Best regards,

Michael @Hypov

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][11]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][12] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



![Malaysian ringgit . How will the crisis affect the national currency
of Malaysia?][13]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.07/1_COVID19_MY_hypov.jpg?w=30&s=499275303de888f51076702479842155
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.07/2_COVID19_MY_stats_hypov.jpg?w=30&s=aa0ff0ed46deaeadd1ba2a36e48db8b1
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.07/3_COVID19_MY_death_hypov.jpg?w=30&s=476432b0dbe0c3b7275f016104a34530
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.07/4_COVID19_MY_new_hypov.jpg?w=30&s=d8d33a156b6600525060e8fba05c85ee
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.07/5_COVID19_MYR_OIL_hypov.jpg?w=30&s=e7f22c9ef70972d80ecfc197a35d6397
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.07/6_COVID19_USDMYR_hypov.jpg?w=30&s=8735b4a986584d83d7c971b49fdcf243
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.07/7_USDMYR_hypov.jpg?w=30&s=b8100188f1f86bd499f218ee9b7177f5
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.07/8_USDMYR_hypov.jpg?w=30&s=bb0d37695464e0908652113f900ee9fc
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.07/9_USDMYR_hypov.jpg?w=30&s=2ce8d9d3c96d5694314ebfc59528d18c
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/whats-happening-to-oil-prices/
   11. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=malaysian-ringgit-how-will-the-crisis-affect-the-national-currency-of-malaysia&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=malaysian-ringgit-how-will-the-crisis-affect-the-national-currency-of-malaysia&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.07/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=f83cfa7d4acf73c3463bd81e65430aa5