+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-07"
description = "Part 8 of the interpretation of Elliott Wave theory by Glenn Neely NeoWave"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Part 8 of the interpretation of Elliott Wave theory by Glenn Neely NeoWave"
type = "post"
+++

April 7, 2020

April 7, 2020

NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”Mikhail Hypov

## NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Retracement rule 5 and the conditions
“a” and “b” to apply it

Dear friends!

Today, I will explain the retracement rule five.

If you are not familiar with the NeoWave theory, I strongly recommend
you read all the articles in the NeoWave series, based on Glenn Neely’s
book Mastering Elliott Wave, starting from the first one:

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][1]

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels ][2]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][3]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][5]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][6]

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][7]

### Rule 5

The retracement rule 5 will apply if m2 is moving in the opposite
direction relative to m1, and m2 should be at least 100% but less than
161.8%. After measuring the relation between m0 and m1, pick up one of
the below conditions and mark the waves with the relevant structure
labels.

### Condition (a). m0 is less than 100% of m1

This condition covers two [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/):

  1. If m2 is composed of 4 monowaves or more.
  2. If m2 is composed of 3 monowaves or less.

### 1\. If m2 is composed of more than three monowaves.

1. If the first three monowaves of m2 are not more than 61.8% of m1, the
first or the second monowave (emerged immediately after m1) may start a
Complex Correction. Besides, the monowave that starts the correction
should be moving in the opposite direction of m1; it may be an x-wave or
contain a "missing” x-wave or "missing" b-wave in its center. The wave
m1 can also be the third wave of an impulse a 5th-Failure Impulse
pattern (Trending or Terminal). In this case, place “:5/:s5” at the end
of m1.

Besides:

  * If the total length of the monowaves following m1 is at least 25% of m1, add “:F3” to m1’s structure list.
  * If the x-wave is missing, circle the center of m1 and place “:s5?” to the left of the circle, and “x:c3?” to the right of it.
  * If the variant of the missing b-wave is considered, circle the center of m1 and place “:5?” to the left of the circle, and “b:F3?” - to the right of it. In this case, the termination of the Complex Correction will be confirmed immediately before the point where the market violently turns (in the opposite direction of ml) and exceeds the 61.8% retracement level of m1.

2\. If the first three monowaves of m2 retrace more than 61.8% of m1, m1
may complete an a-wave of a flat with a complex b-wave, or m1 may
complete the third wave of a 5th Failure Impulse pattern. Therefore,
place “:F3/:5” at the end of m1.

### 2\. If m2 is composed of three monowaves (or less), or m2 is a
monowave.

1\. If m1 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount
of time (or less) that it took to form, and ****m(-2) and m0 do not
share any similar price range, and ****m2 is larger than m(-2), and
****m(-2) and m0 are obviously different in price or time or both, and
****when the price lengths of m(-3), m(-1 ) and m1 are compared, m(-1)
is not the shortest, m1 may conclude a trending impulse pattern. In this
case, place “:L5” at the end of m1.

2\. If m1 (plus one time unit) is retraced in the same amount of time
(or less) that it took to form, and m2 is longer than m(-2), and m(-4)
is longer than m(-3), m1 may be the final segment of a zigzag or a flat.
So, place “:L5” at the end of m1.

3\. If ml (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount
of time (or less) that it took to form, and ****m2 is longer than m(-2),
and m(-3) is longer than m(-2), and ****m(-4) is shorter than m(-3), m1
may be the end of a standard Elliott pattern which is part of a complex
correction, where m(-2) is an x-wave. In this case, place ":L5" at the
end of m1, and "x:c3?" - at the end of m(-2).

Under the above conditions, if m(-1) is at least 161.8% of m0, the
standard correction unfolding is probably a zigzag. If m(-1) is at least
100% but less than 161.8% of m0, the standard correction is likely to be
a flat.

4\. If m1 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount
of time (or less) that it took to form, and ****m2 is smaller than
m(-2), m1 may conclude a flat or zigzag. Place ":L5" at the end of m1.

5\. If m1 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount
of time (or less) that it took to form, and ****m(-2) is smaller than
m(-1), and m(-1) is not the shortest when compared to m(-3) and m1, and
****m2 is not retraced more than 61.8%, and the market approaches (or
exceeds) the beginning of m(-3) within a time period which is 50% or
less of that consumed by m(-3) through m1, and ****the end of m1 is not
exceeded for a period which is four times as long as that consumed by
m(-3) through m1, and ****the ****price coverage of m2 through m4 is at
least twice that of m1, and ****one of m(-1)'s possible structure labels
is ":c3", m1 may finish a terminal __impulse. So, add ":L3" to the
current structure list of m1.

6\. If m1 (plus one time unit) is retraced in the same period of time
(or less) that it took to form, and m3 is between 61.8% and 100% of m1,
m1 may be an element of an irregular failure flat. And so, place “:F3”
at the end of m1.

7\. If m1 (plus one time unit) is retraced in the same period of time
(or less) that it took to form, and m3 is longer than m2, and m0 is at
least 161.8% of m2, and m3 is retraced in the same period of time (or
less) that it took to form, m1 may a part of an irregular flat. Place
“:F3” at the end of m1.

8\. If m1 is completely retraced slower than it took to form, and m2 did
not retrace more than 61.8% of the distance from the beginning of m(-1)
to the end of m,1 and m3 is shorter than m2, m1 may conclude a complex
correction. Besides, m1 will be the most extreme price reached by the
market for a period at least twice that of the combined times of the
group of waves m0-m2. Place ":F3" at the end of m1.

9\. If m1 is completely retraced slower than it took to form, and m3 is
longer than m2, and m2 is not more than 61.8% of the price distance from
the beginning of m(-l) to the end of m1, then the market could be
forming a complex correction or an expanding triangle. In the first
case, m1 would be the end of one corrective phase of the pattern and m2
is likely to be the end of an x-wave. Add ":F3/:c3/:L5" to the structure
list of m1.

10\. If m1 is completely retraced slower ****than it took to form, and
m2 is shorter than m(-2), m1 may be the final segment of a zigzag, which
is part of a contracting triangle. Place ":L5" at the end of m1.

11\. If m1 is completely retraced slower ****than it took to form, and
****m(-1 ) is at ****least 61.8% of m1, and ****m3 is smaller than m2,
and ****m3 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same
amount of time (or less) that it took to form, m1 may be a part of a
flat, which concludes a larger wave pattern. Place ":F3" at the end of
m1.

12\. If m3 is longer than m2, and ****m4 is longer than m3, and m0 is
less than 61.8% ****of m1, m1 may begin an expanding triangle. In this
case, add "(:F3)" to the structure list at the end of m1.

13\. If m3 is longer than m2, and m4 is longer than m3, and ****m0 is
between 61.8% and 100% of m1, then there may be forming an expanding
triangle. In this case, add "(:c3)" to m1’s structure list.

### Let us see how Rule 5 (a) works on the example.

![LiteForex: Part 8 of the interpretation of Elliott Wave theory by
Glenn Neely NeoWave][8]

First, we find out the rule corresponding to the current market
situation. Wave m2 is moving in the opposite direction to m1, and m2 is
between 100% and 161.8% of m1. So, this case refers to retracement rule
5.![LiteForex: Part 8 of the interpretation of Elliott Wave theory by
Glenn Neely NeoWave][9]

The length of m0 is less than 100% of m1. So, the second case of rule 5
(a) is relevant in this case.

![LiteForex: Part 8 of the interpretation of Elliott Wave theory by
Glenn Neely NeoWave][10]

Now, we shall pick up the correct paragraph of the (a) condition. As m1
(plus one time unit) is retraced in the period of time roughly equal to
that it took to form, and m2 is much longer than m(-2), and m(-4) is
obviously longer than m(-3), there works the second paragraph of rule 5
(a). So, m1 may conclude a zigzag or a flat. Therefore, we place “:L5”
at the end of m1.

### Condition b. m0 is at least 100% but less than 161.8% of m1.

1. If m3 is longer than m2, and m0 is closer to 100% than to 161.8% of
m1, place ":c3" at the end of m1.

Besides:

  * If m(-1) is longer than m0, and ****the ":c3" is used as the preferred structure choice, add "b" in front of ":c3" to get "b:c3". In this case, m1 is the b-wave of a flat correction.

  * If (-1) is shorter than m0, m1 may be an x-wave of a complex correction. In this case, add "x" in front of the ":c3" to get “x:c3”.

2.  If m3 is longer than m2, and ****m0 is closer to 161.8% of m1 than
to 100% ****of m1, place ":F3" at the end of m1.

Besides:

  * If m(-1) is longer than m0, m2 is probably the end of a zigzag.

  * If m(-1) is shorter than m0, m1 may be an x-wave of a complex correction which ends with m4.

To represent both possibilities, add “b:c3” and “x:c3” to the structure
list of m1.

3\. If m3 is at least 61.8% of m1, m3 doesn’t exceed the end of m2, and
m2 is closer to 61.8% of m0, m1 may be the first segment of an irregular
failure flat. Add “:F3” to the structure list of m1.

4\. If m3 is less than 100% of m2 but is at least 61.8% of m1, and m3
doesn’t exceed the end of m2, add “:F3” to m1’s structure list.

5\. If m3 is less than 61.8% of m2, and m3 and m1 share some of the
price range, and m4 is not more than 261.8% of m2, and m2 is longer than
m0 and/or m4, and m4 (plus one time unit) is retraced faster than it
took to form, and the price reaches the beginning of m0 during the
period not longer than 50% of the time it took to form m0 through m4,
then m4 may be the end of a terminal pattern. Place “(:c3)” at the end
of m1.

However, if ":F3" is one of m1's current structure possibilities, add
brackets around it (“[:F3]”) to indicate ":c3" is a much better choice.

6\. If m1 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount
of time (or less) that it took to form, and ****m2 is almost 161.8% of
ml, and ****m2 is retraced less than 61.8%, and ****m(-1 ) is at least
61.8% of m0, and ****m(-2) is between 61.8%-161.8% of m(-1 ), and m(-3)
is between 61.8% -161.8% of m(-2), and ****the combined length of m2
through m4 is longer than m0, m1 complete a contracting triangle; add
":L3" to the structure list ofm1.

7\. If m1 (plus one time unit) is completely retraced in the same amount
of time (or less) that it took to form, and ****m1 is not more than
161.8% of m(-1), and ****m2 is almost 161.8% of m1, and ****m2 is
retraced less than 61.8%, and ****the total length of m2 through m4 is
longer than m0, m1 conclude a flat pattern; add ":L5" to m1’s structure
list.

8\. If m(-1) is shorter than m0, and ****m2 (plus one time unit) is
completely retraced in the same amount of time it took to form (or
less), and ****m0 is not the shortest when compared to m(-2) and m2, and
****the price approaches (or exceeds) the beginning of m(-2) in a period
of time that is 50% (or less) of that consumed by the group of waves
m(-2) through m2, m2 is likely to be the end of a terminal impulse. In
this case, add “:sL3” to m1’s structure list.

9\. If the current market situation refers to none of the above
conditions, and m1 is a monowave, mark m1 with all structure labels
described in this section, namely, “:F3/:c3/:5/:L5(:L3)”.

10\. If the current market situation refers to none of the above
conditions and m1 is a compacted polywave or a price pattern of a higher
degree, you need to pick up a position indicator to place in front of
the structure label of m1. I will cover position indicators in detail,
as well as the ways to apply them, in one of the following training
articles.

### Let us see how rule 5 (b) works on the example.

![LiteForex: Part 8 of the interpretation of Elliott Wave theory by
Glenn Neely NeoWave][11]

First, we identify the rule corresponding to the current market
situation. m2 is moving in the opposite direction to m1, m2 is in the
range of 100%-161.8% of m1. So, rule 5 applies to our case.![LiteForex:
Part 8 of the interpretation of Elliott Wave theory by Glenn Neely
NeoWave][12]

The length of m0 is between 100% and 161.8% of m1. So, there is relevant
the second part of the (b) condition of rule 5.

![LiteForex: Part 8 of the interpretation of Elliott Wave theory by
Glenn Neely NeoWave][13]

Now, we shall pick up the relevant paragraph of (b) condition. Wave m3
is longer than m2. Besides, if we look closer, we will see that m0 is
closer to 100% of m1 than to 161.8% of m1. So, we put “:c3” at the end
of m1.

Let us see the next requirement. Wave m(-1) is longer than m0, and, as
we have just found out, “:c3” is a preferable choice. So, the current
label should be replaced with “b:c3”. In our case, m1 is the b-wave of a
flat correction.

If m(-1) were shorter than m0, m1 could be an x-wave of a complex
correction. If it were so, we would replace “:c3” with the “x:c3”
structure label.

That is all for today. In the next educational post, I’ll continue
covering retracement rule 5 and move on to rule 6.

* * *

Take care of yourself and your money!

Subscribe and be the first to read the most up-to-date materials!

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][14]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][15] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][16]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.05/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=6b32417406a9fda2f59c0f7a85f18a0f
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.05/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=42e721131a9077078bbb84c0ac8099eb
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.05/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=d035442089bbcd7f5b2503ee5633ced7
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.05/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=65a3ba4c5814a50b876dfa1d76d4d2e4
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.05/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=303fb64df9fcb8dacf8010440805d3a1
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.05/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=d11362d67b62ef973ac5ab46b19328c2
   14. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   15. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   16. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.05/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=97b284e46f1404b9574b6f240a679bfe