+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-26"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 26.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 26.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 26, 2020

June 26, 2020

Euro is not coming down without a fightDmitri Demidenko

## EUR/USD bulls are trying to hold the price above level 1.12

The market isn’t reacting to the bad [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/), which is good [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/). The
number of COVID-19 cases per day in the US has increased to a record
high. The U.S. senators seek to sanction Chinese officials for violating
Hong Kong’s independence. The report on the US initial jobless claims
has been worse than the forecast. All these factors should have dropped
the S&P 500 below 3000, the [ EUR/USD][1] should have been down to at
least the support at 1.117. The international trade was down by 12.1% in
April, which is the worst drop since records started. Reuters experts
say the global economic state has deteriorated. To skeptics’ surprise,
the US stocks have been up, and the euro-dollar has been held up above
figure 12. The euro is not coming down without a fight!

The second wave of the pandemic and the escalation of trade wars are the
factors that can trigger a deep correction in the U.S. stock market. On
June 24, the S&P 500 was down when the number of coronavirus cases was
close to the record high. However, when the number of new COVID-19 cases
reached its peak, the U.S. stocks have been unexpectedly up. In fact,
COVID-19 is just a decoration and the stock market moves depend on how
deep the US GDP drops and how quickly it rebounds. That is why the
market was more impressed by the speech of White House chief economic
adviser Larry Kudlow, who said that the economy is not going to be
closed again, the US economy could expand by 20% in the second half-
year, and the US unemployment rate could fall below 10% by the end of
2020, than by the surge in the new coronavirus cases.

 **Dynamics of new COVID-19 cases in the USA**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 26.06.2020][2]

 _Source: Financial Times_

The fact that the epidemiological situation in the USA doesn’t improve
suggests it is not relevant to sell off the US dollar. According to JP
Morgan, the greenback could be much weaker than it is now expected if
the global GDP is 2% up by the year’s end, and if the projections for
the growth-gap between the US and the global economy are 3% down. The
first suggestion is not working yet. 71 out of 90 experts polled by
Reuters say the global GDP outlook has been worse over the past month or
at least has been the same. On the other hand, Bloomberg’s leading
indicators signal that the euro-area economy is recovering faster than
the U.S. growth.

 **Dynamics of recovery trends for global economies**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 26.06.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Investors were focused on the ECB reply to the German constitutional
court and ignored an important point in the minutes of the Governing
Council's June meeting. If the euro-area GDP is strong, €1.35 trillion
of the emergency purchase program won’t be spent. This a clearly hawkish
stance, which is surprising at the current stage of economic
development.

In my opinion, the[ EUR/USD][1] will hardly rally up unless the
epidemiological situation in the U.S. improves. However, a faster
recovery trend for the euro area and China than for the USA, suggests
bullish market sentiment. Therefore, it makes sense to open long
positions if the pair foes down to the supports at 1.1155 and 1.112.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Euro is not coming down without a fight][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/covid-19-usa-26-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=a8eccce02c2e0a8aaa59a529fb60880d
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/nike-recovery-26-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=218a9f0d17593de725a5c2ed3bbdcafb
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-is-not-coming-down-without-a-fight&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-is-not-coming-down-without-a-fight&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-26-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=7a51dc2d24c467bf536013035ae57748