+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-26"
description = "The world will be different in 10 years"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "The world will be different in 10 years"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 26, 2020

June 26, 2020

Trade war won’t save the dollarDmitri Demidenko

##  **China can only be slowed down but it can’t be stopped**

Word spoken is past recalling. The Senate introduces sanctions against
Chinese officials for breaking human rights in Hong Kong - Beijing keeps
silent. Donald Trump speculates on a possible total breakup with China -
Beijing keeps silent. Assistant to the President and Director of Trade
Peter Navarro asserts that the relations between the two countries are
over - Beijing keeps silent.  Is Beijing worried about saying some
stupid things after such a long silence? I don’t think so. According to
ex-National Security Advisor John Bolton, actually China wants the
Republican to be re-elected because his presidency damages the USA much
more than China.  In fact, Trump is cutting off the branch he’s sitting
on. But this rascal knows too that the problem is whether you’re sitting
on the right side.

![LiteForex: The world will be different in 10 years][1]

All is relative in this world. True, the current US president exhausted
China with import taxes. But do we know for sure that Joe Biden, a
candidate for the Democratic nomination in the presidential election,
doesn’t suffer from sclerosis? Nothing is worse that a revengeful person
with a severe sclerosis: they take vengeance on everyone. As for Trump,
he uses a trade war to take vengeance on his predecessors who had been
turning a blind eye to China’s dishonest competitive practices. ​

The pretexts are obvious, but the reason is that winners never want to
become runners-up. According to IMF, the US GDP may drop 8% in 2020,
while China’s GDP will grow 1%. In 2021, it’s +4.5% and +8.2%
respectively. If the countries return to pre-pandemic growth rates,
China will have outrun the US as early as in 2029. And they won’t yield
their leadership to anyone after. The main reason for China’s
breakthrough is urbanization:  the percentage of Chinese urban
population is now equal to the US’s one in 1940. When people move to a
city, their income and expenses increase, which boosts GDP. This process
can’t be stopped, it can only be slowed down and it’s what Trump is
trying to do.

![LiteForex: The world will be different in 10 years][2]

I feel a bit sorry for Trump. It’s hard to be an Atlas: you can’t even
scratch your balls or else the heavens will collapse. The US economy and
stock market are so huge that [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s can’t ignore the events which
take place there.  I even don’t mention the dollar itself and its
enormous share in conversion operations, global payments and gold/forex
reserves of central banks. Well, things may change radically in 10
years. The runners-up can’t be better in anything: the winners won’t
tolerate it. The White House is driving China into a corner and makes a
common mistake. Don’t drive anyone into a corner, or you may be driven
there yourself.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Trade war won’t save the dollar][5]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/cut-bough-26-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=dba0b1dc65b7ed9aa68d685e033c0d3d
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/china-usa-26-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=acfe6a7d1371aec445b697deaaeddd5b
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=trade-war-wont-save-the-dollar&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=trade-war-wont-save-the-dollar&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/liteforex-blog-china-26-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=712ab8047f7f1ac456567070296370a1