+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-18"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 18, 2020

May 18, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.05.2020Alex Rodiоnov

 **Colleagues, hello! I am back from vacation and resume my work.**

 **During my absence from the blog, LiteForex celebrated its 15th
anniversary. And, as there is a celebration, there are presents. For us,
traders.**

 **LiteForex launched a promotion,**[ **“Dream Draw**][1] **” with a
prize fund of 350 000 USD. The prizes include a lot of Apple super
gadgets, a certificate to buy a dream car, a certificate to buy a dream
house anywhere in the world, and you can also win a trip to Dubai for
the broker’s birthday party.**

 **I think these are good prizes and they are worth competing. To
participate in the contest, you need to**[ **open an account with
LiteForex**][2] **if you don’t yet have any. You automatically receive a
lucky number after you deposit any sum starting from 500 USD, and you
should be actively trading after the depositing. Next, track the random
numbers generation**[ **on this page.**][1] **Who knows, maybe you will
win the main prize! I wish you good luck, and now, let’s get down to the
forex analysis today.**

###  **USCrude –oil** ****

Oil is trading in the medium-term uptrend. Within this trend that
started in late April, the price broke out Target Zone 3 [26.67 – 25.92]
last Friday. This week, the buy target will be Target Zone 4 [34.17 –
33.42].

I recommend entering trades at good prices on the correction down. The
trend key support is now in the zone of [17.03 — 15.83].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.05.2020][3]

The oil short-term trend is up. The price ha broken out Target Zone 3
[26.67 – 25.92 and is now approaching Gold Zone 3 [30.04 - 29.67].

I recommend entering new oil purchases on the correction down to strong
supports:

  1. Additional Zone [26.03 - 25.73].

  2. Intermediary Zone [23.03 - 22.43].

To enter a trade, we should expect the test of the support and a
reversal pattern to buy.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.05.2020][4]

 **[USCrude][5]Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [26.03 - 25.73]. TakeProfit: 28.80, Gold Zone 3 [30.04 - 29.67]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [23.03 - 22.43]. TakeProfit: 28.80, Gold Zone 3 [30.04 - 29.67]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

Last week, gold price reached the major target in the middle-term
uptrend, Target Zone 5 [1757.2 - 1751.2]. I wrote about this target a
month ago. I recommended buying gold in every analytical article.

As the upside target was reached, we shall now see if the buyers break
out the resistance TZ 5 and consolidate the price above. If they do, the
next buy target will be Target Zone 6 [1817.2 — 1811.2].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.05.2020][6]

Gold short-term trend is up. Following the trend, the gold price has
reached Target Zone [1760.0 – 1750.8]. Buy trades entered in
Intermediary Zone [1692.8 – 1688.2] should be closed.

I suggest two possible scenarios to develop:

  1. The price is corrected down to either Additional Zone [1741.8 – 1739.5] or Intermediary Zone [1718.9 – 1714.3]. In this case, we shall expect buy patterns.

  2. The price breaks out Target Zone and consolidates above. In this case, we shall enter new purchases, and the buy target will be in Gold Zone [1801.1 – 1796.5].

There are no signals to sell gold.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.05.2020][7]

 **[XAUUSD][8] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1741.8 - 1739.5]. TakeProfit: 1763.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1718.9 - 1714.3]. TakeProfit: 1763.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EURUSD is testing the key support of the middle-term uptrend [1.0817
– 1.0783]. The price hasn’t consolidated below level 1.0783, so, it is
still relevant to buy the euro. Expect a corresponding pattern and enter
long trades.

Otherwise, if level 1.0783 is broken out, we shall sell the eurodollar
with a target in the lower Target Zone 2 [1.0653 — 1.0635].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.05.2020][9]

Let us analyze the shorter timeframe. It indicates selling pressure, as
the short-term trend is down. The trend key resistance is 1.0866 –
1.0857]. Traders have been testing the zone over the past two weeks. It
hasn’t been broken through yet, but the price action mode indicates that
traders are not willing to sell the euro and reach Gold Zone [1.0744 –
1.0735]. The price hasn’t broken out the technical support level 1.0785.

The price is now moving up again. There is no sell pattern. If the price
breaks out IZ today or tomorrow, the trend will turn up. In this case,
we shall buy the EURUSD with a target in the upper Target Zone [1.0966 -
1.0948].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.05.2020][10]

 **[EURUSD][11] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.0866 - 1.0857]. TakeProfit: 1.0785, Gold Zone [1.0744 - 1.0735]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. If Intermediary Zone [1.0866 - 1.0857] is broken out, buy. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.0966 - 1.0948]. StopLoss: below the next important low.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][12]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][13] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 18.05.2020][14]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/contests/dream-draw/
   2. my.liteforex.com/
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_180520_1.png?w=30&s=c59e8cf870443a1e2b309e4c6b210d30
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_180520_2.png?w=30&s=7b66801c3abbe30f9ed9e2b173c58c5e
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_180520_1.png?w=30&s=46b5cea026bf38e69f5f7d1f1e5085b3
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_180520_2.png?w=30&s=50bf4d7f1acfd9d07403763b10a83db6
   8. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_180520_1.png?w=30&s=7427fcc27f28f271a83ad0eb0f4a0ed1
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_180520_2.png?w=30&s=2d6df1aedf90497d519075d928a9e628
   11. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   12. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-18052020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   13. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-18052020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_39_1000x545.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=dbdf9636663f964f556fb022a9373452