+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-18"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 18.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 18.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 18, 2020

May 18, 2020

Dollar changed the shoesDmitri Demidenko

## The White House changed its attitude to the U.S. currency

You could do anything to win the presidential elections! You could also
abruptly reverse your own point of view. For most of his presidential
term, Donald Trump was a fan of a weak dollar. In May, however, he
supports the position of the former U.S. administrations that the strong
currency is necessary. And the current US President has his reasons.
Amid the huge fiscal stimulus, the focus is switched from foreign trade
and competitiveness to the sources of managing the growing budget
deficit. Besides, the strong greenback currently seems to be an
advantage, as the strong currency indicates the US strong economy.

Donald Trump needs to find the subtle balance line between the US stock
indexes and the US dollar, which are moving in opposite directions as
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are very responsive to the risk. Trump always saw the S&P 500
be an indicator of his success as the President. Also, the US stock
market crash in March substantially lowered Trump’s chance to win the
upcoming presidential election.

 **Dynamics of the S &P 500 and the popularity of Democrats and
Republicans **

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 18.05.2020][1]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Therefore, it is not surprising that the worst drop in the US industrial
production (-11.2%) and retail sales (-16.4%) since the government began
tracking in 1911 and 1992 respectively, is presented as a bottom of
indicators’ fall. They say it can’t be worse than in April. Yes, retail
sales account for about 42% of the US consumer spending or 70% of the
GDP, and the indicator’s drop by 23% over two months has subtracted,
according to the ING, more than 6 basis points from the nominal gross
domestic product. But the worst is already over, isn’t it?

One should understand Jerome Powell’s words that it doesn’t make sense
to bet against the US economy, and the Fed hasn’t yet run out of the
monetary tools. According to the FOMC president, the current recession
is not that deep as the Great Depression, though the pre-crisis
conditions will hardly be restored until 2021. Such a tone of the Fed’s
president and the interpretation of the US domestic data support the S&P
500.

The major growth driver for the US dollar is the talks about the
escalation of the US-China trade war. I must admit that the White House
successfully fuels the conflict that seemed to be easing. Another
portion of the gas in the fire of the trade dispute was poured by the
tougher licensing requirements for the companies working with Huawei. __

The euro, on the contrary, has many problems pressing it down. After the
report on Germany’s GDP for the first quarter, the split among the euro-
area members continues growing.

 **GDPs of the euro-area countries**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 18.05.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Germany’s GDP is better than that of most European states, also because
Germany introduced the measure limiting the economic activity later (on
March 23) than other European countries, and the production sector was
hit by the crisis less than the services and tourism sectors. Under the
current conditions, the [EUR/USD][3] pair is more likely to break
through the bottom of the trading range 1.077-1.09 than the top.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar changed the shoes][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/spx-trump-18-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=1b148b7c140355eeda72b8e47e25d8fd
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/economic-euro-area-18-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=e5decf62654b423bec2458f8d3c08e54
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-changed-the-shoes&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-changed-the-shoes&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-18-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=d82fc610bd5d2ef05da1c6113b5ae003