+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-18"
description = "NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels and application of progress labels to trending impulses."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels and application of progress labels to trending impulses."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 15, 2020

May 18, 2020

NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels and application of progress labels to
trending impulses.Mikhail Hypov

## Progress labels. Rules of using progress labels in all types of
trending impulse waves.

Dear friends!

In the[ previous article][1], I explained the rules of complexity and
balance, the rules of wave grouping, compaction, and regrouping. I also
explained how the power rating of a wave determines the following market
action. This article deals with the progress labels in trending
impulses. I will also explain [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) use progress labels to identify
wave proportions in patterns and their structural peculiarities.

If you know nothing about the NeoWave, I recommend reading all the
articles in the NeoWave series, starting from the first. (The training
articles in the series are based on Glenn Neely’s book Mastering Elliott
Waves).

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][2].

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels. ][3]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][5]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][6]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][10].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][11].

[NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][12]

[NeoWave. Part 12. Impulsions and the rules to analyze impulse wave
patterns. ][13]

[NeoWave. Part 13. Corrections. Rules to identify a correction.][14]

[NeoWave. Part 14. Triangles. Rules to identify triangles.][15]

[NeoWave. Part 15. Basic and advanced rules of logic to analyze
triangles][16].

[NeoWave. Part 16. Extended rules of logic for Flats and Zigzags.][17]

[NeoWave. Part 17.][18][ ][18][Extended rules of logic for complex
corrective patterns.][18]

[NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance. Compaction
procedures. Power ratings.][1][][1]



### Progress labels and their application

Remember, progress labels mark the waves within a pattern with numbers
from 1 to 5. Depending on the wave degree, waves are marked with Roman
numerals, numbers, numbers in brackets, and so on. Each progress label
has certain features, which allow an experienced Elliott wave analyst to
identify the current market structure and anticipate future market
action.

### Progress labels in trending impulses

Let us study the regularities that are likely to occur in trending
impulses depending on the pattern’s features.

### Rules of application progress labels to the extended wave 1

I covered the rules of extensions in detail in [NeoWave. Part 12.
Impulsions and the rules to analyze impulse wave patterns.][13])

If wave 1 is extended, then:

  1. The move that follows Extended wave-1 (wave-2) cannot retrace much more than 38.2% of wave 1.
  2. Wave 2 can’t be a zigzag. If you see a zigzag form after the 1st wave extension, most likely it will be the completion of only wave A of a larger flat correction.
  3. Wave 2 will be more complex and time-consuming than wave-4 and __it is likely that it will be the most complex and time-consuming pattern in the entire series (1-5).
  4. Wave-2cannot be a running correction.
  5. Wave-5 must be the shortest of the three impulse waves (1,3,5)
  6. If the pattern is above the polywave level, wave 1 is likely to be the subdivided wave (the most complex of the three impulse segments).
  7. If wave 1 is not the subdivided pattern, then it must be wave 3.

### Rules of progress labels for a non-extended wave 1

If wave 1 is non-extend, then:

  1. Wave 2 can retrace as much as 99% of wave-1. If it does, and wave-1 is a polywave or higher, the 2-wave will subdivide (the 2-wave may subdivide whether the 1st wave does or not) into an a-b-c pattern in which the C-wave will fail.
  2. Wave 3 must be longer than the first wave.
  3. If the first __wave-1 develops after a prolonged advance or __decline, there are no specific price level requirements for the termination of wave 1.
  4. If wave 1 is a part of a larger 3rd or 5th wave, then wave 1 should approach or even exceed the termination point of the last impulse wave of one larger degree.
  5. If the pattern is above Complexity level 1, the third or __fifth wave will be the subdivided segment, not __wave 1. In other words, wave 3 or 5 will be more __subdivided

### Let us analyze a trending impulse using progress labels

Example.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels and application of
progress labels to trending impulses.][19]

The impulse highlighted in the chart above is a trending impulse as wave
(2) and (3) do not share any of the same price territory. The first wave
is the shortest of all impulse segments. So, it cannot be extended. Let
us check whether the requirements typical for non-extended waves are
met. AS you see from the chart, the third wave is longer than the first
one. As the analyzed pattern is complex, wave (3) is more segmented than
wave (1). The above rules state that wave (5) should be more segmented
than wave (1). However, this rule is not obligatory, and this case is
likely to be an exception.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels and application of
progress labels to trending impulses.][20]

Wave 2 retraces not more than 99% of wave 1 (namely, it is about 38.2%).
Besides, wave 1 has a complexity level, which is not less than a
polywave (as it is composed of a monowave group). So, wave 2 can be
segmented into an a-b-c pattern, where the C-wave fails (the end of the
C-wave is higher than the beginning of the B-wave).

### Rules of progress labels for wave 2

  1. If wave 1 turns out to be (or is believed to be) the longest wave in the sequence, the second wave cannot retrace much more than 38.2% of the first wave. If the first wave is not the longest wave, the lowest point of wave 2 can retrace as much as 99% of wave 1.
  2. If wave 1 is a polywave or higher, wave 2 must subdivide into a polywave of a higher pattern.
  3. If wave 2 subdivides, its wave A retraces more than 61.8% of wave 1, this correction will be either a double failure or a C-failure. The C-failure should occur at a point of 61.8% or less of wave 1.

Example.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels and application of
progress labels to trending impulses.][21]

As you see from the chart above, wave (1) is a polywave, and so, wave 2
should subdivide into a polywave or a higher pattern. The last segment
of wave 2 is composed of three monowaves, and so, this correction is a
polywave. There is met the second rule for the second wave’s progress
labels.

### Progress labels rules for an extended wave 3

  1. If the third sub-wave in wave 3 is also subdivided. In this case, there is a 3rd wave extension immediately after wave 2 completes, without forming a smaller 2nd wave on the same chart.
  2. The 2nd wave should be of Power level 1 (+or -) or higher.
  3. If the 3rd wave is a polywave (it is composed of a sequence of smaller waves), consecutively smaller 2nd-waves (before the explosive “3 of 3” move) will be similar in construction. In this case, the smaller 2-waves must take less time, less price, and retrace less (as a percentage of wave-1) than the larger 2-waves. Also, the larger 0-2 trendline should not be broken by the smaller 2-wave correction.
  4. If wave 3 is extended, wave 5 may fail.

### Rules of progress labels for a non-extended wave 3

  1. Even if wave 3 is not the longest of the three impulse waves, it can’t be the shortest of them.
  2. If wave 3is shorter than wave 1, then wave 1 will be the extended wave and wave 5 will be shorter than wave 3.
  3. If wave 5 extended, wave 1 would be shorter than wave 3.
  4. When the first wave extends, wave 3 should complete no further away than 61.8% above (or below if the market is trending down) from the end of wave 1.

Example.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels and application of
progress labels to trending impulses.][22]

It is clear from the above chart that the third wave in the pattern is
extended, as it is the longest of the three impulse waves. The second
wave is a C-failure flat, and so, according to rule 2 of extended third
waves. The second wave has the power rating 1 (I described power ratings
in the [previous training article][1]).

### Rules of progress labels for wave 4

  1. If the 5th wave extends, wave 4 should be more complex, time-consuming, and possibly of one greater complexity level than wave 2. Remember, I covered the complexity levels in the [previous educational article][1].
  2. I wave 1 extends, wave 4 should have a simpler structure than wave 2, it should be also smaller in time and price.
  3. If the fifth wave extends, wave 4 should retrace a greater percentage of wave 3 than wave 2 does of wave 1.
  4. When the 5th wave is the extension wave 4 will frequently retrace as much as 50%-61.8% of wave 3.
  5. If the fifth wave fails in the Impulse sequence, the fourth wave should be the most complex pattern and should retrace more than 38.2% of wave 3. This rule is not always strictly obeyed. A retracement of 61.8% is allowable.

Example.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels and application of
progress labels to trending impulses.][23]

It is clear from the above chart that no condition for the fourth wave
is met. So, I will analyze progress labels for wave 4 on an example of
another pattern.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels and application of
progress labels to trending impulses.][24]

It is clear from the chart that the fifth wave in this impulse pattern
is an extension. Therefore, according to rule 3 above, wave 4 should
have a more complex structure and greater length (261.8% of wave 2).

Besides, the second wave retraces 50% of wave 1.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels and application of
progress labels to trending impulses.][25]

Wave 4 retraces wave 3, according to the above rule (see rule 5) by a
greater percentage, almost 61.8%. Besides, here works another rule, when
if the fifth wave is extended, wave 4 retraces as much as 50%-61.8% of
wave 3 (see rule 4 above).

### Rules of progress labels for an extended wave 5

If the fifth wave is an extension, then:

  1. Wave 5 should be at least equal to the price distance of the total length of waves 1-3. However, the maximum length of the 5th extension should not exceed 261.8% of the total lengths of waves 1-3.
  2. Wave 4 should be greater in time and price and have a more complex structure than wave 2.
  3. Wave 1 should progress at the sharpest angle with wave 3 following closely behind and wave 5 possessing the slowest rate of acceleration.
  4. A 5th wave extension cannot be completely retraced unless __it is the c-wave of a correction or is the end of a larger 5th wave extension

### Progress labels rules for a non-extended rule 5

  1. If the 5th wave is non-extend, it should be retraced close to 100% or more by the next corrective wave.
  2. If wave 1 is extended and the sequence concludes wave the first wave or the A-wave of a larger degree, the correction after wave 5 should complete in the price zone of wave 2.
  3. If the first wave is extended and the sequence completes wave 3 of a larger degree, the correction after wave 5 should stop in the price zone of wave 4.

Example:

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels and application of
progress labels to trending impulses.][26]

It is clear from the above chart that the fifth wave is non-extended.
According to the first rule, the 5th wave should be retraced close to
100% or more by the next corrective wave. In our case, the retracement
is about 150%. The rest conditions for non-extended fifth waves do not
work in our condition, as neither the first wave nor the third wave is
extended.

### Rules of progress labels for a 5th wave failure

In most cases, 5th wave Failures occur when the 3rd wave is the extended
move. Besides, wave 4 should be more complex than wave 2, and wave 4
should retrace more of wave 3 than wave 2 retraces of wave 1. Almost
always, wave 1 and wave 5 will be similar in price and time. In rare
instances, waves 1 and 5 will relate in price and/or time by 61.8%.

A 5th wave can fail in an impulse pattern only under one of the
following circumstances:

  1. If the Impulse pattern (which contains the 5th wave Failure) is itself the 5th wave of a larger Impulse pattern.
  2. If the Impulse pattern (containing the Failure) is the c-wave of one (and not more) larger degree.
  3. In rare cases, there could be a larger third wave with a smaller fifth wave failure. This could take place, the market would need to be forming a top or bottom that is very significant. In this situation, it would mean a multiwave pattern, or preferably higher. If this is the case, the larger 5th wave will also have to fail, and it must fail even further away from a high or low than the wave-5 failure within the 3rd wave.

If there is a fifth wave failure at the end of a larger third wave, it
would indicate exceptional counter-trend power. Note that this
phenomenon, difficult to understand, is hardly ever possible. Neely has
never seen a fifth wave failure at the end of a larger third wave.

That is all for today. In the next training article, I will cover
progress labels applied to terminal impulses.

Subscribe and be the first to read the most up-to-date materials!

* * *

Take care of yourself and your money!

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][27]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][28] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels and application of progress labels
to trending impulses.][29]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-18-rules-of-complexity-and-balance-compaction-procedures-power-ratings/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b/
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a/
   11. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-10-retracement-rule-6-conditions-b-c-and-d/
   12. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-11-retracement-rule-7/
   13. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-12-impulsions-and-the-rules-to-analyze-impulse-wave-patterns/
   14. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-13-corrections-rules-to-identify-a-correction/
   15. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-14-corrections-triangles-rules-to-identify-triangles/
   16. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-15-basic-and-advanced-rules-of-logic-to-analyze-triangles/
   17. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-16-extended-rules-of-logic-for-zigzags-and-flat-corrections/
   18. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-17-extended-rules-of-logic-for-complex-corrections-exceptions-to-the-rules-2020-05-07/
   19. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.13/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=2fa411ef6d9476133e4da80f3042736b
   20. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.13/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=a0b906ea89bfe49376f4186c2f588001
   21. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.13/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=2e70a04495d09f8bc7a8876fb6714aa8
   22. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.13/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=8ca35adab3eb3ba5fac078f9e6403288
   23. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.13/BTCUSD_hypov_51.jpg?w=30&s=1a65cf5e0259e608bb4291147fee2c83
   24. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.13/BTCUSD_hypov_52.jpg?w=30&s=36b86e7ffa5dab2fb01de0357b250ccf
   25. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.13/BTCUSD_hypov_53.jpg?w=30&s=15504ea9c543f42909c7c31225b647fd
   26. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.13/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=b0af1efb06e712833513885c26df7f89
   27. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-19-progress-labels-and-application-of-progress-labels-to-trending-impulses&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   28. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-19-progress-labels-and-application-of-progress-labels-to-trending-impulses&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   29. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.13/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=f6210c8328c75220d013d7bb23ca08f9