+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-23"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 23, 2020

April 23, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.04.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude –oil**

Oil is now being corrected up and approaching the border of the medium-
term down trend at [11.67 - 10.92]. I recommend expecting the zone
breakout and the price consolidation above to enter purchases. It is
time to stop selling oil.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.04.2020][1]

Oil short-term trend turned up yesterday, as Intermediary Zone [7.54 –
7.17] was broken out. Today, the price is getting close to Target Zone
[11.67 – 10.92], but it hasn’t yet reached the zone.

If you have bought oil at the market price during the IZ breakout, move
the trades to the breakeven now.

If the price is corrected down, we shall enter new purchases in
Intermediary Zone [6.83 - 6.46]. I do not consider any chance to sell
oil.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.04.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [6.83 - 6.46].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [11.67 - 10.92]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

Gold price rebounded up form the key support of the middle-term uptrend
and formed a false breakout pattern to buy. I recommend buying gold
according to this pattern with the target at the high of last week +
Target Zone 5 [1757.2 — 1751.2].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.04.2020][4]

The price broke out Intermediary Zone [1709.6 – 1705.0] yesterday. So,
the short-term trend has turned up. Now, the target is at the upper
Target Zone [1760.0 - 1750.8].

For short-term trading, I recommend looking for buy entries on the
correction and focusing on the support Additional Zone [1696.8 -
1694.5]. If Additional Zone [1696.8 – 1694.5] is broken out downside,
the next support to stop the price fall is Intermediary Zone [1673.9 —
1669.3].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.04.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

Open medium-term buy positions in Target Zone [1663.9 — 1655.6]
according to the pattern. TakeProfit: 1738.0, Target Zone 5 [1757.2 -
1751.2]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EURUSD is slowly sliding down and is now again testing the strong
support Target Zone 2 [1.0803 - 1.0786]. We shall see if the sellers
break this zone out downside.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.04.2020][7]

The price reached the major sell target in the short-term downtrend,
Target Zone [1.0808 – 1.0790], yesterday. If this support is broken out
soon and the price consolidates below, the next sell target will be Gold
Zone [1.0717 – 1.0708].

To trade in the short-term, I suggest looking for sell entries on the
correction into the strong resistance zones, Additional Zone [1.0853 -
1.0848] and Intermediary Zone [1.0903 – 1.0894]. The target will be at
the local [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) low.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.04.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

Hold down a part of middle-term sell trades entered in Target Zone
[1.0957 - 1.0940]. TakeProfit: 1.0773. StopLoss: at breakeven

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.04.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_230420_1.png?w=30&s=997f3a52ef2678912e2aef57da6c9ba1
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_230420_2.png?w=30&s=83f1e5a9bce2e71e9328ba1c86d611b1
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_230420_1.png?w=30&s=541632239e47b45c80d984d852cf9a45
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_230420_2.png?w=30&s=3fe848b6293b5580e08b8874775b52b4
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_230420_1.png?w=30&s=6ade6c0b5c24df89e8262f660fbc890c
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_230420_2.png?w=30&s=c0e1d99889c78fa6a5f7a543b897be98
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-23042020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-23042020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_134.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=6c878225800e8df0626bdeb539df4835