+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-23"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 23.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 23.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 23, 2020

April 23, 2020

Euro takes care of the fallen angelsDmitri Demidenko

## ECB takes every measure to support Italy

The dollar is like the Phoenix rising from the ashes. US indexes stopped
growing steadily and started jumping up and down. Oil shocked everybody
falling below zero. Investors are concerned about the report on US
jobless claims. According to the experts surveyed by Reuters, the
initial claims for state unemployment benefits probably totaled 4.2
million in the week ended April 18. As a result, the US economy would
lose roughly 26.2 million jobs since the week ending March 21,
representing about 16% of the labor force. This is more than the economy
created during the employment boom which started in September 2010.

The euro is weighed on by the uncertainty around the meeting of the EU
officials on April 23. The euro-area finance ministers hardly did reach
the agreement on the €540-billion aid package to cover the coronavirus
economic fallout. It would take much more money for economic recovery.
They may need as much as €2 trillion, and, considering the different
approaches to the funding sources, the discussion should be long. Some
insist on issuing mutual bonds, the so-called “corona bonds”, some
prefer creating a fund, others suggest writing off the debts. There is
an opinion that the Eurogroup will force the ECB to directly finance the
governments. Mutual repayment of the issued debts is an extremely
dangerous strategy, and the alternative scenario that suggests
monetizing the debt could be so confusing that hardly anyone could
understand it.

Special attention should be paid to the weakest countries. Italy’s
government expects the budget deficit to rise to more than 10% of GDP in
2020, the economic output should shrink by 8%, and the debt-to-GDP ratio
will increase from 135% to 150%.

 **Dynamics of Italy’s budget deficit**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 23.04.2020][1]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte is set to ask parliament for authorization
to broaden the budget deficit by about €55 billion to finance a new
stimulus package in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. Italy will
have to increase the issuance of bonds, and considering the fact that
Standard & Poor's could downgrade Italy’s credit rating and Italy’s bond
yield is rising, it would be quite expensive to service the debt.

Italy was supported by the ECB that announced its decision to purchase
the so-called “fallen angel” bonds. These are the securities, whose
investment rating could be downgraded to junk status but fulfilled
minimum credit quality requirements until a particular date. That date,
according to the ECB, was April 7.

So, there are such euro bearish drivers as high demand for safe-havens,
expectations for the US poor jobs report, oil market shocks, and severe
disputes about the euro-area fiscal stimulus. All of these allowed the
[EUR/USD][2] bears to test the support at 1.081. However, the price went
back above the support and is now trading in the short-term
consolidation zone of 1.08-1.09. The further trend will be clear when
the pair goes outside this trading channel.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Euro takes care of the fallen angels][5]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/budget-deficit-italy-23-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=433133a1d99dcd2f8047d1b7df55e717
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-takes-care-of-the-fallen-angels&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-takes-care-of-the-fallen-angels&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-23-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=97fe3b9686252b006ff61345f39752d7