+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-23"
description = "Iranian rial vs US dollar"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Iranian rial vs US dollar"
type = "post"
+++

April 23, 2020

April 23, 2020

Iranian rial. How will global crisis and pandemic affect Iran’s national
currency?Mikhail Hypov

##  **Iranian rial: fundamental analysis, technical analysis, COVID-19,
trend analysis, actual scenario.**

Today we will have a look at the situation in Iran and the rate of its
national currency - Iranian rial.

First, I need to mention that Iran has been continuously subjected to
the Western world’s sanctions since 1950. The last round of sanctions
hit the country’s economy the hardest.

In 2018, Donald Trump reimposed sanctions on exports of cars,
hydrocarbons and precious metals.  US sanctions will be also imposed on
any country that will continue trading with Iran.

Iran’s access to external borrowing became limited. The country was
banned from using SWIFT and can’t therefore use such international
payment systems as Visa and MasterCard.

In 2019, new sanctions hit Iran’s construction sector: imports of
construction materials, steel, coal and industrial equipment were
restricted.

So, the economy of Iran didn’t feel good even before the outbreak of
coronavirus.

###  **COVID-19 in Iran**

![LiteForex: Fundamental and technical analysis: Iranian rial vs US
dollar][1]

We see from Iran’s coronavirus map that the densely populated regions of
the country were hit the hardest. It is believed that the coronavirus
started spreading from Iran’s holy city of Qom, home to the country’s
main shrines.  This city is located 150 km south of Tehran and the road
to Isfahan passes through Qom as well. Thus, the virus spread across the
central part of the country very fast. The first infected people were
registered as late as on 19th February, but Iran became the most
infected Gulf country all the same.![LiteForex: Fundamental and
technical analysis: Iranian rial vs US dollar][2]

Officially, 85,996 cases were registered in Iran on 23d April. 63,113
people recovered and 5,391 people died. The scale of this tragedy could
have been less if the government had acknowledged the threat and hadn’t
waited for the disease to burst out dramatically. Unfortunately, the
authoritarian government of Iran had chosen another way.

On 25th February, they declared that anyone who spread panicky messages
about the epidemic would be punished.

As Iran is a theocratic state, government is ruled by the clergy here.
From the very beginning, they were against closing the main shrines,
asserting that shrines could heal. As a result, the access to holy
places was limited much later than necessary.

A chain of feasts and important events made the situation even more
complicated.

11th February: anniversary of Islamic Revolution.

21st February: Parliamentary election.

The first coronavirus cases might have been detected during that period,
but apparently the information was concealed on purpose for allowing the
elections to be held.

21st March - 3d April: Nowruz, the Persian New Year.

This is a time of open air celebrations, visits and mass movement across
the country. The government had taken preventive measures and prohibited
all mass gatherings, asking people to observe social distance and not to
leave their homes without extreme necessity. Travel between provinces
and business activities had been suspended too. Still, most people
ignored those measures and visited their families and friends as usual.

![LiteForex: Fundamental and technical analysis: Iranian rial vs US
dollar][3]

However, the number of infected people is falling, according to official
statistics (see the chart above). Amid the events and festivities I have
mentioned, such statistics may not be true because serious measures to
fight the coronavirus were introduced too late.

Iran’s government has already started lifting some restrictive measures
and reopening businesses. The attempt to show positive dynamics may be
required for justifying the lifting of measures. Obviously, the economy
of Iran won’t withstand a long quarantine period under the pressure of
cheap oil, global isolation and sanctions.

###  **Economy of Iran**

The budget of Iran consists by 45% of oil and gas revenues. Iran is an
export-oriented country. Its economy took another hit due to the global
lockdown and closure of borders. The Iranian government worked out a
package of relief measures to provide 2,400 USD to every citizen. The
total value of the support package amounts to 5 billion dollars.  The
International Monetary Fund was supposed to lend the money.  However,
the IMF hasn’t approved the request yet.

As there’s no time left, Rouhani announced that 10% of holdings in one
of Iran’s state-managed investment companies would be sold to the
private sector. The sale price will probably be low amid the global
economic crisis and fall of stock quotes. Considering sanctions and
limited access to external borrowing, the budget deficit will be most
likely cut through money issuing.

###  **Iranian rial**

Interestingly, the rial may be exchanged at three rates.

![LiteForex: Fundamental and technical analysis: Iranian rial vs US
dollar][4]

 **The first rate** is official. It’s fixed by the Central bank of Iran.
Its dynamics is shown in the chart above. The rate has been fixed at
42,000 IRR/USD since the end of 2018.

 **The second rate** is a free market rate that is used for private
exchanges.   According to the latest information, it’s set at 130,000
IRR/USD and it has been at that level for a long time already.

 **The third rate** is NIMA’s rate. NIMA is a platform to regulate and
register foreign exchange transactions.   The actual NIMA’s rate can be
checked [here][5]. It was introduced by the Central bank to top up its
currency reserves.  The bank increases the export price expressed in
national currency on purpose in order to raise demand for it. But it is
believed that this price is as close to the market price as possible.

NIMA’s rate was 153,148 IRR/USD on the last working day in Iran. So we
may assume that the market rate will approach this level soon.

###  **Actual scenario**

The classic rules of technical analysis won’t work for the Iranian rial
since its official rate is controlled by the government. Based on
fundamental analysis and [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) data, I think the currency rate will
continue devaluing, even if Iran’s Central bank needs to cut inflation
to at least 9%.

Since we have a good reference point - the rial’s export rate - I think
the government will have to gradually devalue the rate to the market
level amid economic hardships and sanctions.  The market level may
change too, but its fall won’t be too sharp. A certain balance point can
be found at around 200,000 IRR/USD, which is a psychologically important
level.

![LiteForex: Fundamental and technical analysis: Iranian rial vs US
dollar][6]

The chart above shows some regularities in the regulator’s behaviour.
Its actions won’t probably change because it’s the powerful machinery of
government. So, sharp devaluation (the red arrow in the chart) will
follow long consolidation which must end soon, based on the historic
projection. Then, there will be free market fluctuation (green arrow)
with gradual rate fixing at a new market level (purple arrow).

Don’t pay much attention to the time scale: the events are developing
too fast and it’s almost impossible to determine the time frame. My main
task is to show price limits and the nature of the rial’s fluctuations.

The time will show the way it will be. I’ll continue sharing my ideas
here.

Subscribe and keep in touch!

 _I’d like to remind you that all materials are provided for educational
purposes only. They aren’t financial advice and don’t guarantee any
profits. All trading decisions you make are your responsibility only._

* * *

Take care of yourself and your money!

Yours,

Michael @Hypov

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][7]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][8] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

![Iranian rial. How will global crisis and pandemic affect Iran’s
national currency?][9]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.23/IRAN_COVID19_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=85818c1e6e488653d3625cd5ec6af0d9
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.23/IRAN_COVID19_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=48256c0fd449609990baf504174b61b8
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.23/IRAN_COVID19_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=2011887c81f6bc7fc0991bb43a31040f
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.23/IRRUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=430246e4a28f2697d7316142aec0c28f
   5. www.sanarate.ir/Default.aspx
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.23/IRRUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=c4b03bc748b341b6c3f9e800f802dbba
   7. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=iranian-rial-how-will-global-crisis-and-pandemic-affect-irans-national-currency&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=iranian-rial-how-will-global-crisis-and-pandemic-affect-irans-national-currency&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.23/IRRUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=adba991a830f036261295dcafce6b3fe