+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-06"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 06.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 06.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 6, 2020

May 6, 2020

Euro holds the ECB backDmitri Demidenko

## The decision of the German top court sends the EUR/USD down

You can’t break a broom if do not damage its rods first. The long-
awaited decision of Germany’s constitutional court on the legacy of the
European QE has become a shock for financial markets. It has undermined
the ECB independence and increased the EU break-up. The first broken rod
has become Italy. Italy’s bond yield jumped as much as 17 basis points,
widening the gap with their German counterparts to 250 basis points.
Italian Finance Minister Roberto Gualtieri had to calm down the markets
saying that the German court’s decision won’t stop ECB asset purchases.

The German constitutional court says that the ECB €2.7-trillion QE
program, which started in 2015, is not direct financial assistance to
the governments. However, it warns that the Bundesbank will stop buying
government bonds if the ECB doesn’t fix the flaws in the QE program
within three months. It seems that, when the ECB starts normalizing its
monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), it will also have to explain to the judges all negative
effects of the interest rate hikes for the borrowers, the unemployed,
and the governments, whose borrowing costs are to increase. Is it
independence?

Another shock for the markets has been the [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) that the German top
court has ruled that the decision of the European court on the QE legacy
taken two years ago is beyond its legal powers. The German
constitutional court, for the first time, has declared the ruling of the
European court to be illegal. This undermines the EU uniform legal
order, one of the most important achievements of the entire currency
bloc. While the ECB is taking every measure to avert the euro-area
fragmentation, Germany seems to be indulging the euro-area break-up.

The decision of the German Constitutional Court came at a difficult
time, especially for the countries most affected by the pandemic. Being
deep into the recession, Italy has already passed an initial set of
stimulus measures for its economy worth €25 billion and is willing to
acquire another package worth at least €55 billion. To fund the stimulus
package, there will be used the resources raised in the debt market,
and, if the ECB doesn’t buy the local bonds, borrowing costs will be
increasing, which will set back the process of the GDP recovery.

 **Dynamics of Italy’s GDP**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 06.05.2020][1]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

While the Fed, the US administration and the Congress are taking every
measure to support the U.S. economy, Germany’s judges limit the ECB
power, threaten its independence and increase the risks of the euro-area
fragmentation. In addition, the leaders of the euro-area governments
fail to find a compromise on the fiscal stimulus. So, the [EUR/USD][2]
drop looks natural. Especially since the drop in the ISM services PMI to
the lowest level since 2009 and the contraction of the US foreign trade
in April increase the demand for the US dollar as a safe-haven asset.

Limiting the ECB power, the German constitutional court sets a new
barrier to the recovery of the euro-area GDP. The European economy will
be weak for a long time. So, it is relevant to hold down the
[EUR/USD][2] shorts [entered at level 1.0965][3].

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Euro holds the ECB back][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/italy-economy-06-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=4f90760ce248e4053a10723b12446a84
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/euro-has-started-the-game-badly/
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-holds-the-ecb-back&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-holds-the-ecb-back&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-06-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=fdd9337269917ec28cef742909fc8af0