+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-29"
description = "Euro price forecast 29 October 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 29 October 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-10-29

2021-10-29

ECB failed to persuade euro. Forecast as of 29.10.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Christine Lagarde’s dovish tone was not enough to discourage the
[EURUSD][1] bulls. Will the euro rally continue? Let us discuss the
Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

Markets need the attention of central banks. If they don’t get enough
attention, they will punish regulators. At one of the first press
conferences since taking office as the ECB president, Christine Lagarde
said that the European regulator should not be engaged in narrowing
spreads in the regional bond market; she was immediately punished and
later was forced to make excuses. In late October, Lagarde noted that
she was not to judge whether the markets sent too early signals. The ECB
president has made the same mistake twice. She showed disregard for
market signals, and as a result, received a reaction that she clearly
wanted to avoid. The euro-area bond yields continued rallying, and the
[EURUSD][1] has been up to the highest level since late September.

The biggest intrigue of the October Governing Council meeting was
whether Christine Lagarde would persuade the markets. Investors expected
a dovish tone and, after finding it not dovish enough, started buying
the euro on the facts, following selling the [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/). The vague explanation
that a thorough analysis of the ECB does not confirm market signals for
a rate hike in 2022 has persuaded no one. Moreover, Lagarde said that
the recent surge in inflation to 3.4% will last longer than expected,
although it will be a temporary phenomenon. According to Bloomberg
source familiar with the matter, there is a split within the Governing
Board. Not everyone is sure that the growth rate of consumer prices will
begin to slow down in 2022.

### Dynamics of euro-area inflation

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

As confirmation that Christine Lagarde failed to persuade the financial
markets is the fact that at some point during her speech, eurodollar
futures implied that by the end of 2024, the ECB rates would be raised
six times! Investors still believe that the first rate hike will take
place at the end of 2022. It is not surprising as Germany’s inflation
has hit its 28-year high at 4.6%, and Spain’s inflation is up to a
37-year high of 5.5%. Markets believe that central banks lag behind in
their response to the consumer price spike, and the ECB is no exception.

Dollar pressed down by new all-time highs of the US stock indexes and a
slowdown in the US GDP to 2% in the third quarter, which is lower than
Bloomberg experts expected. The major reason is a decline in personal
consumption from 12% to 1.6%.

### Dynamics of US GDP

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Euro has also been supported by a drop in gas and coal prices. Gas
prices have been down, as Russian President Vladimir Putin said that
Gazprom should increase gas supplies to Europe. The coal price has
dropped amid the verbal intervention of China’s officials, claiming the
coal price could further decline. The energy crisis is a bearish factor
for the [EURUSD][1], so successful addressing the crisis could encourage
the euro bulls to go ahead.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

However, the euro rally looks limited ahead of the FOMC meeting and the
US jobs report, which is likely to be strong. If the [EURUSD][1]
rebounds down from the resistance levels of 1.172 and 1.176, one could
consider selling the pair. It will also be relevant to sell if the price
doesn’t consolidate above 1.168.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true