+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-15"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 15.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 15.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 15, 2020

May 15, 2020

Euro enjoys the calmDmitri Demidenko

## The EUR/USD needs a fresh driver

The markets now enjoy calm after the storm. After jumping up and down in
the February-March period, the [EUR/USD][1] is slowly moving in the
range that becomes narrower. Bulls can’t drive the price above 1.09,
bears can’t break through the support at 1.07-1.0775. The pair needs
fresh drives to exit the trading range, but there isn’t yet any new
driver.

The euro is supported by the US stocks that have stabilized amid a drop
in the US jobless claims and a rise in the Chinese industrial production
by 3.9% Y-o-Y in April. However, China’s retail sales and investments
continue contracting, and Donald Trump, like a naughty child, refuses to
talk to Xi Jinping. The US President says he could even cut all the ties
with China, and if the US did it, it would save $500 billion. The US-
China trade war could still be resumed, and the trade war in 2018-2019
did much harm to the export-led euro area.

 **Dynamics of China’s industrial production and retail sales**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 15.05.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The euro is waiting for Germany’s GDP report. While Germany is
complaining that it will lose €81.5 billion in tax revenues, other euro-
area countries criticize Berlin for its unwillingness to spend money.
Angela Merkel’s government could receive resources virtually for free,
but it didn’t. As a result, Germany has the lowest debt-to-GDP ratio of
major euro-area countries. German GDP will be down by just 2.2% Q-o-Q,
according to Bloomberg experts. The euro-area GDP will lose 3.8% Q-o-Q.
The inequality causes envy and discontent, and the German constitutional
court requires explanations from the ECB, which provides aid to poorer
countries. The fish rots from the head. So, I won’t be surprised if the
currency bloc starts falling apart because of Germany.

 **Dynamics of debt-to-GDP ratio in euro-area countries**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 15.05.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The euro looks vulnerable. But for the US stock indexes, grabbing every
positive [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) bit, or the factors of the greenback's weakness in the
long-term outlook, the [EUR/USD][1] would be below the support
1.077-1.0775. The US huge public debt and the expansion of the Fed’s
balance sheet to $9.63 trillion by December 2021 and to $11.27 trillion
by December 2022, according to the forecast of the analysts polled by
the Wall Street Journal, make [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s worry. Investors now wonder when
they will need to sell the dollar.

Remarkably, the median gauge of Bloomberg experts suggests the
[EUR/USD][1] should be at 1.12 in late 2020. Yes, the forecast has
lowered from 1.15 suggested in January, but the bulls still hope to
resume the euro uptrend. In my opinion, this could happen only if the
trade war completely ends, the euro area stays united and the global GDP
quickly rebounds in the second quarter. All of this is still possible.
In the meanwhile, the [EUR/USD][1] is slowly drifting in the trading
range of 1.077-1.09.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Euro enjoys the calm][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/china-indicators-15-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=0b61b8842ff9a531132e83306082e42a
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/debt-euro-area-15-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=4d92da9dfc22112a3124568b79aeb49b
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-enjoys-the-calm&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-enjoys-the-calm&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-15-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=21244a592112ae03a9142e9cc367edbe