+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-15"
description = "Ghost of a trade war roams the market"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Ghost of a trade war roams the market"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 15, 2020

May 15, 2020

Trade war: to be or not to be?Dmitri Demidenko

##  **Donald Trump provokes China but China is different now**

When I look at some people there’s only one thing I can think about: how
do I get an arms licence? A renewal of the US-China trade war is the
last thing the global economy needs now when the pandemic is here.
Still, Trump won’t calm down and continues blowing the whistle on
Beijing. One day he threatens to introduce import taxes in reaction to
the alleged origin of coronavirus from a laboratory and failure to
fulfil the obligations to buy American products. Another day, he forbids
the US largest federal pension fund to invest in Chinese shares. Another
say, he speaks aloud of a total breakup with China, which will allow the
States to save $500 billion. Can’t Trump just put his mask on and keep
his mouth shut?

![LiteForex: Ghost of a trade war roams the market][1]

China understands the benefits of being the first country that has made
coronavirus kneel down. It’s not the same country it was at the
beginning of 2020.  China has made everyone understand no one can twist
it around their little finger. Otherwise they will be given the finger.
And if the Americans want to tell the Chinese to go to hell, they will
have to see them off until the final destination. Beijing swaps
diplomacy for threats more and more often. It stops buying Australian
pork in response to Canberra’s intention to start a global investigation
into the origins of coronavirus; it blows up rumours of the US plot
against China; it encourages the states that are loyal to China.  ​

Beijing has started to think again it can outrun the West like it did
after the crisis of 2007-2009 when the growth of Chinese GDP helped
global economy to recover.

As for Trump, Beijing’s chosen the same tactics as Fed chair Jerome
Powell did. It pays no attention to US president's angry talks. All know
that ignoring is the oldest method of emotional violence. These 2
countries’ relationship looks more and more often like a family idyll
when a husband pretends to be the head of family and makes orders while
a wife agrees with him and still does things her way.

![LiteForex: Ghost of a trade war roams the market][2]

Trump’s talks of a total breakup with China look like a man’s desire to
divorce:

> \- Why did you divorce?

>

> \- My wife and I didn’t have any common interests except 9 children...

The US-China relations are too tight to be easily broken up. It’s almost
impossible to remove Chinese businesses from supply chains which involve
the USA. Globalisation rules the world. The US stock indexes’ rally says
there won’t be any trade wars. How does [S&P 500][3] know everything?
People’s wisdom...Still, people aren’t always wise. Sometimes they
aren’t sober.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of SPX in real time mode

![Trade war: to be or not to be?][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/mask-15-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=c2965ce486266bf1f2b4e42744eac085
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/husband-wife-15-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=716e4a4980f4cc80d2e9f28fe8b6b195
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=trade-war-to-be-or-not-to-be&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=trade-war-to-be-or-not-to-be&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/liteforex-blog-trade-war-15-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=92bae1633792a33b93af602c4c7ba25c