+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-22"
description = "Forecast for USD price for 22 October 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for USD price for 22 October 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-22

2020-10-22

Dollar checks its watch. Analysis as of 22.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The markets have been obsessed with fiscal stimulus recently, but the
demand for European bonds may push [EURUSD][1] to the north if the ECB
expands the bond-buying programme on 29 October. Let’s discuss that and
make a trading plan.

## Weekly fundamental forecast for dollar

In the financial markets, time is as important a factor as a price
direction. Many traders would lose their money having chosen a wrong
moment for making a trade, even though an asset’s price direction was
predicted correctly. It is believed that fiscal stimulus will weaken the
US dollar as stocks will grow, global risk appetite will increase, and
demand for safe-haven assets will fall. The question is: will the
economic support be provided before or after the elections? In the
latter case, Donald Trump’s unwillingness to recognize voting results
will support uncertainty and the greenback.

According to economic adviser Larry Kudlow, the stimulus talks are going
really well, and both the economy and the market will profit if a deal
is made within the next two weeks. At the same time, the Republicans
don’t accept the prospective amount of $1.9 trillion. Speaker of the US
House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi believes, a deal will be signed in
spite of the Republicans’ resistance, but admits it may happen only
after the elections.

An extra support before the election would give Trump and the USD extra
points. That’s why the dollar’s weakness and the [S&P 500][2]’s fall
mean the markets are doubting that the Congress will approve of the
Democrats’ package before Joe Biden takes the president’s chair.

### US candidates rating



 _Source: Nordea Markets._

Unlike fiscal stimulus, the US elections have already been scheduled. At
the same time, the Blue Wave may raise the [S&P 500][2] in the short
term, and weaken the greenback, with a subsequent correction. On the
other hand, the markets are overconfident about the Democrats’ victory,
which shows itself in lower volatility at Forex. In 2016, Hillary
Clinton was on the top of ratings, but it was Trump who opened a bottle
of champaign. If he is re-elected unexpectedly, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s should
consider selling the [AUDUSD][3] and buying the [USDCNH][4] amid a risk
of US-China trade war resumption.

### Forex volatility dynamics

###

 ** _Source: Bloomberg._**

### Weekly trading plan for [EURUSD][1]

The QE programme extension period is a question of time too. If that
happens at the ECB’s meeting on 29 October, we can develop a trading
strategy of buying the [EURUSD][1] as the quotes will fall amid weak
statistics on Germany’s and the eurozone’s business activity, and fixing
profits after the Executive Board’s meeting. Such a strategy is based on
high demand for periphery countries’ bonds. The price for them will grow
if QE gets extended.  The problem is, the ECB may not take that step at
the end of October.

I think that such factors as Joe Biden’s victory and a capital flow from
the US debt market to Europe may raise [EURUSD][1] quotes despite the
second pandemic wave and the eurozone’s economic weakness. Wait for data
on Europe’s PMI to make a decision about medium-term trades. Until then,
focus on intraday trading with narrow targets.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCNH&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-checks-its-watch-analysis-as-of-22102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-checks-its-watch-analysis-as-of-22102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus