+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-22"
description = "Forecast for gold price for 22 October 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for gold price for 22 October 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-22

2020-10-22

Gold allies itself with euro. Analysis as of 22.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

Probably, it’s not fiscal stimulus that makes financial markets move. To
find out the truth, a more thorough look may be needed. Let’s have a try
and make a trading plan for gold.

## Weekly fundamental forecast for gold

Looking at financial assets’ different reaction to uncertainty around
the US fiscal stimulus, we may wonder if that is someone’s plan to draw
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s’ attention from something much more serious. Indeed, there is
a doubt that another support package will be accepted before the
election, and that makes the stocks fall. On the contrary, the treasury
yield has reached its highest since the beginning of June on
expectations of additional issuance and capital flow from the secondary
market to the primary market. The falling dollar increases the turmoil,
which usually points to a drop in uncertainty. What’s going on? How
should the traders who work with gold behave?

According to TD Securities, fiscal stimulus [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) is nothing but market
noise. The package will be approved of anyway, before or after the
election. That will strengthen the current reflation and support stock
indexes and gold. As for the treasury yield growth, it can’t last
forever. Investors know well that one doesn’t play against the Fed.
Jerome Powell and his colleagues won’t allow borrowing costs to soar,
which will complicate the process of the GDP’s recovery. The Fed will
start to buy long-term debt funds, and that will lower profitability.
Thus, gold has only one way to go: north.

I agree with TD Securities, and would also like to add that an important
bullish driver for [XAUUSD][1] is a weak dollar. To be more precise,
it’s a strong euro, its share in the USD index being 57%. The first
issuance of the EU common bonds and high demand for the peripheral
countries’ bonds will move money from the USA to Europe and support
[EURUSD][2] bulls. Indeed, the fall in the treasury yield may not be
related to fiscal stimulus expectations, but to the goal of selling
treasuries and buying the European bonds.

### [EURUSD ][2]and US treasury yield

 _Source: Trading Economics._

Thus, fiscal stimulus talks are nothing more than a cover that most
likely hides the faster flow of money to the European bond market. That
explains why the US dollar is weak, and the treasury yield grows. For
how long will the [EURUSD][2] be rallying and supporting gold? For as
long as the ECB is maintaining a rumor of extending the asset buying
program at the meeting on 29 October. The Executive Board’s members,
including key economist Philip Lane and Christine Lagarde, have been
often mentioning COVID-19’s fast spread across Europe and its negative
impact on GDP and inflation. Thus, the market has already started
factoring the expectation that QE will be expanded at the Board’s
nearest meeting.

### Weekly trading plan for gold

Even if “golden” bulls have already failed twice to take the resistance
level of $1,930 per ounce, they won’t quit trying. A successful breakout
will be a signal for building up long positions formed at the level of
[$1875][3].

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/gold-could-break-the-bottom-forecast-as-of-28092020/
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gold-allies-itself-with-euro-analysis-as-of-22102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gold-allies-itself-with-euro-analysis-as-of-22102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus