+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-22"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (22 October 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (22 October 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-22

2020-10-22

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 22.10.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

Oil is trying to break through the resistance - Target Zone 5 [41.67 -
40.92].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil is trying to break through the resistance - Target Zone 5 [41.67 -
40.92]. If it consolidates above the level, consider new longs with the
target in Target Zone 6 [49.17 - 48.42]. If a sell pattern is formed,
there will be another test of the key support of the trend [37.34 -
36.72].

The short-term trend is upward. Yesterday traders made a correction to
the area of favourable prices for longs [40.36 - 38.83]. Today bears
tested the support trend line.

I recommend buying oil from the trend line. To confirm this idea, one
may wait for a signal - a pattern. The target for longs will be the
upper Target Zone [42.56 - 42.01].

As for the shorts on oil, the price has to break through the key support
level and consolidate below during the American trading session. If this
is the case, look for short positions with a target in the lower Target
Zone.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy from the trend line. TakeProfit: Target Zone [42.56 - 42.01].
StopLoss: 39.17.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold is correcting to the mid-term downtrend and approaching the key
resistance [1951.0 - 1941.7]. Wait for a test of the zone and look for a
sell pattern. The lower Target Zone 2 [1829.4 - 1820.1] is the target.

Short-term trend for gold is upward. Buyers broke through the local
resistance, Additional Zone [1911.3 - 1908.7], yesterday. Yesterday I
recommended buying gold at a retest of this zone.

Today the market gave an entry point for longs. Keep them up to the
upper Target Zone [1951.0 - 1941.7]. Stop-loss is at 1903.0, according
to my recommendations.

Don't forget to rebuild the strong support zones on the chart after the
high is updated on October 12.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Keep the longs from Additional Zone [1911.3 - 1908.7]. TakeProfit:
Target Zone [1951.0 - 1941.7]. StopLoss: 1903.0.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Yesterday there took place the first close of the American trading
session above Target Zone [1.1832 - 1.1812]. One more is needed to
change the medium-term trend to an upward one.

The chart of a smaller timeframe indicates that the EURUSD pair is
traded in a short-term uptrend with the target in the upper Target Zone
[1.1943 - 1.1920].

Today consider buying from strong supports:

  1. Additional Zone [1.1822 - 1.1817].
  2. Intermediary Zone [1.1764 - 1.1753].

Wait for a test of the levels and look for a pattern. Don't open trades
without a pattern.

Sell the euro if there is a second trend reversal by breaking through
the IZ and consolidating below during the American trading session.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern from Additional Zone [1.1822 - 1.1817]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1943 - 1.1920]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern from Intermediary Zone [1.1764 - 1.1753]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1943 - 1.1920]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-22102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-22102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus