+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-22"
description = "What is Fibonacci Retracement: Levels, Chart and Tools Explained"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "What is Fibonacci Retracement: Levels, Chart and Tools Explained"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-23

2020-10-23

What is Fibonacci retracement? How to trade using this indicator?Oleg
Tkachenko

Fibonacci levels are the favorite tool of swing and scalping traders.
They are based on a harmonic mathematical sequence with the golden
ratio. The Fibonacci tool can track potential price reversal points
during a correction and confirm a trend reversal. In this review, you
will learn how the Fib retracement levels are built and [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) use Fib
retracement to make money on financial markets.

The article covers the following subjects:

## How to use Fibonacci retracement

Support and resistance levels are one of the most common auxiliary
technical analysis tools. The breakout of key levels confirms a strong
trend; a rebound may mean a correction and continuation of the main
trend. Levels are the point where a price reversal is more likely to
occur than elsewhere on the chart. They are used to set stop orders or
pending orders and determine the profit target.

The trend line movement is a long-term directional upward or downward
price movement accompanied by temporary small corrections.

It was noticed that the depth of these corrections and the distance
between local corrective extremes are mathematically consistent. For
example, during a downward movement, the price going up within
corrections often ends at certain resistance levels. These levels, on
which a trend reversal towards its main direction is possible, were
called Fibonacci levels.

Fibonacci retracement levels are horizontal support and resistance
levels located at a fixed distance, which is calculated using a
coefficient. They are percentages of the magnitude of the price movement
and are plotted on the trend during the correction.

Key level values:

  * 0%. End point. The extreme value of the price. The grid is stretched from the beginning of the trend to its end. Therefore, for an upward chart, 0% will be at its high, for a downtrend – at its low.
  * 23.6%. Relatively weak level. If a correction has begun, most often it breaks through it.
  * 38.2%. One of the key correction levels. If the main price movement is strong, the correction will end here with the highest probability.
  * 50%. Intermediate level. It’s not included in the Fibonacci sequence. According to the theory, the price tends to retrace 1/3 to 1/2 the length of the previous trend before continuing the main movement. When it’s passed by the price, this is a signal that the correction is turning into the main direction of price movement.
  * 61.8%. One of the key levels. If the price breaks through it, it can go further.
  * 76.4%. Relatively weak level. It can act as the first correction line for a new trend.
  * 100%. Starting point. Extreme price value, from which the grid stretches to 0%. This is the beginning, or the low, for an upward movement. For a downward trend, this is its high.

Any trend during a rollback is more likely to continue than reverse. And
the Fibonacci percentages show the likelihood of continuation of the
reversal correction. The larger they are, the more likely it is that the
trend will not continue, and the correction is a new trend direction of
the price.

How to add the indicator to the chart. In the chart, the Fibonacci
Levels indicator is a grid with a range from 0 to 100% with intermediate
horizontal levels built on the basis of the golden ratio - the number
1.618. More precisely, its inverse coefficients. While in the series 21,
34, 55 the Fibonacci golden ratio is equal to 34/21 ≈ 55/34 ≈ 1.618, the
coefficients are calculated in reverse: 21/34 ≈ 34/55 ≈ 0.618.

This is how you add the indicator:

 **1.** On the LiteForex [website](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/website-for-forex-trading/), in the top menu, select the tab "For
Beginners / Open Demo Account". You don’t need to register to get
acquainted with the indicator - you will immediately get into the
trading terminal.

 **2.** Click on the "Trade" button and select a trading instrument.

 **3.** Select "Fibonacci Channels" in the column of graphic instruments
on the left side of the chart window.

A list will appear:

  * Channels. Two parallel lines showing the boundaries of the channel with additional parallel lines inside it. The distance between the lines is calculated using the Fibonacci ratio.
  * Retracement. Classic horizontal levels applied to the trend movement to determine the end of a local correction.
  * Trend-based extension. The tool is an extended version of the correction levels. It has additional levels that go beyond the key point 100% - 168.1%, 200%, 261.8%.

There are no settings. For example, select "Fibonacci retracement",
click on the chart where the levels start and stretch the grid. If you
pull the grid to the lower left or right corners, "0" will be at the
bottom, and "100%" - at the top. Vice versa, if you drag the grid to the
upper left or right corners, then "0" will be at the top, and "100" - at
the bottom.

This is how the Fibonacci Retracement looks without being tied to the
price chart if the grid is stretched in different directions. Here you
can see the border ranges from 0 to 1 with the price corresponding to
each level in brackets. Absolute values are used instead of percentages.
For example, 0.5 corresponds to the median level of 50%. For
convenience, each sector between the levels is painted in its own color.

>  **Note.**

>

> We will be getting ahead, but this is important. There are Fibonacci
numbers 13, 21, 34, 55, etc. There is a scale of the Fibonacci
Retracement indicator from 0 to 100. The level 0.236 is calculated as
13/55, "0.382" - as 13/34. "0.618" - as 13/21. Level 50 is the median.
Where did the 0.786 level come from?

>

>  **Answer:** this is another auxiliary level equal to the square root
of the previous level. It is called "the last resort". This is where the
dreams of traders who still believed in price correction and reversal
are shattered. By the way, there is no such level in MT4.

I will tell you more about [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) apply a grid to the price chart and
[how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) work with other instruments from the list in the following
sections.

To remove the shape from the chart, right-click on it and click Remove
All Shapes.

 **What you need to know about Fib levels:**

  * Suitable for trend movement only. It’s useless to build them during a flat at the moment of consolidation.
  * Determine where to place pending orders and take profit. Fibonacci levels closest to the opening point of the trade are the take profit target.
  * Intermediate lines are local support and resistance levels. The correction is not always perfect and the price may freeze for a while, for example, between the levels of 38.2 and 26.3. The end of the retracement usually occurs between 38.2 and 61.8.
  * Not a perfect tool. It only gives a hint of where the price may reverse. You should also be guided by the patterns formed by the price.

The Fibonacci retracement tool works on all timeframes. And while in
long-term Fibonacci levels strategies they are used more for preliminary
analysis and forecasting, in scalping it is perhaps the most basic tool
for setting a grid of orders.

Another tip: be careful with the grid during [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) releases. Fundamental
factors increase volatility. The price easily breaks through levels, but
what appears to be a trend may turn out to be just a deep correction
followed by a rollback.

### What is the fibonacci sequence

 **What are Fibonacci numbers?** The Fibonacci sequence is known far
beyond trading. This numerical sequence was known even in ancient India
and used in metric sciences. Later, in the XII century, the Italian
mathematician Leonardo of Pisa better known as Fibonacci formulated its
properties.

It is an infinite number series: 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8 13, 21, 34, 55 ...
It has several patterns:

  * Each next sequence number is the sum of the previous two. For example, 8 = 5 + 3. Or 34 = 21 + 13.
  * The ratio of a member to the previous member tends to 1.618. For example, 55/34 = 1.6176. The number 1.618 is called the Golden Ratio.
  * The ratio of the member to the one before the previous member tends to 2.6. For example, 55/21 = 2.619.

The number 1.618 is called the Golden Ratio. It is often found in
natural forms that don’t have anything in common directly - in the
proportions of human body parts, the distance between leaves on trees,
Fibonacci spirals, etc. In the 19th century, the Golden Ratio was called
the standard of the harmony of proportions in nature.

The idea of ​​using the Golden Ratio in stock trading was first proposed
by Ralph Nelson Elliott in the 1930s. When analyzing the stock indices
charts, he noticed that the ratio between their fluctuations is
approximately equal to the number 1.618. Later, the results of his
research formed the basis for the mathematical apparatus used in
technical analysis to plot Fibo levels and their modifications.

### Fibonacci sequence formula & calculation

1\. The calculation formula is as follows:

For an uptrend:

 **Price = A + (B - A) * Level,** where

Price is the calculated price, A is 0% price (end point of the trend), B
is 100% price (start point of the trend), Level is the Fibonacci level.

For a downtrend:

 **Price = A - (A - B) * Level**

In an Excel spreadsheet, this calculation looks like this:

 **Step 1.** Enter the input data - start and end prices depending on
the direction of the trend. These are cells B2 and B3 for the upward
trend and C2-C3 for the downward trend.

 **Step 2:**

  * In cell B4, enter the formula: =$B$3+($B$2-$B$3)*A4
  * In cell C4, enter the formula: =$C$3-($C$3-$C$2)*A4

Stretch the formulas across all levels. The table is ready. You can
download the template [here][1].

 **Example of manual calculation.** Take any section of a 5-digit
sequence. For example, 13, 21, 34, 55. Let's calculate the ratios taking
the first level (13) as the initial level:

  * 13/21 = 0.618;
  * 13/34 = 0.382;
  * 13/55 = 0.236;

Let's add an intermediate ratio of 0.5.

Suppose there is an uptrend in the chart of a currency pair - the price
has grown from 1.2500 to 1.3850. This is the main trend. Then the price
reversed down. We take the mark 1.2500 as 100%, 1.3850 as 0%. Let's
calculate the support levels, from which the price can rebound towards
the main growing trend:

  * The first support level is 23.6%: 1.385 + (1.25-1.385) * 0.236 = 1.3531.
  * The second support level is 38.2%: 1.385 + (1.25-1.385) * 0.382 = 1.3334 - this is the 38.2% level.
  * The third support level is 50%: 1.385 + (1.25-1.385) * 0.5 = 1.33175.
  * The fourth support level is 61.8%: 1.385 + (1.25-1.385) * 0.618 = 1.3016.

The levels can not only be calculated manually in spreadsheet editors or
built using technical tools. You can use calculators that calculate
intermediate levels based on the input of price extremes. I will show
you how they work through a couple of examples.

 **1\. Fibonacci levels calculator on LiteForex [website](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/website-for-forex-trading/). You can find
it[here][2].**

Determine the high and low prices on the current trend of the currency
pair. Enter them into the calculator, indicate the nature of the trend -
upward or downward.

The calculator gives you price values ​​for each level and extension in
4-digit quotes.

 **2\. Fibonacci calculator on the Investing analytical portal
[website](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/website-for-forex-trading/).**

 ****

We have another changeable parameter here - the "Special" window. In it,
the trader can indicate a pivot point within the range to see a
potential widening of the spread.

For example, in a downward movement, the price moves from 1.2000 to
1.1000, pushes up from the 1.1000 support level, reaches 1.1500 and
reverses down again. The price values ​​1.2000 and 1.1000 will be
extremes, 1.1500 is a reversal value within the range and is indicated
in the "Special" field. It only affects the calculated values ​​in the
Extension field.

## Fibonacci Retracement and Predicting Prices

How to use Fibonacci retracement levels in technical analysis:

  * Identifying potential trend reversal points. The horizontal resistance or support levels coinciding with the Price Action elements and the correction grid give additional confidence that the trend will soon reverse.
  * Identifying potential profit targets - trade closing points.
  * Identifying local extrema.

## How to draw Fibonacci retracements

 **How to use Fibonacci levels correctly in trading:**

 **Step 1.** Identify the trend in the chart. Pay attention to the
following:

  1. If you analyze the already completed trend in order to find the next correction zones, focus on the lowest and highest points.
  2. If you build the grid on the current trend, find only the point that is the initial extreme. You can follow a moving trend by pulling the grid further.

The trend has its additional peaks and valleys, which can be considered
a starting point. I recommend adhering to the following restrictions on
the analyzed periods:

  * For the M30 timeframe - no more than 10-12 days.
  * For the H1 timeframe - no more than 2-3 weeks.
  * For the H4 timeframe - no more than 6 months.
  * For D1 timeframe - no more than 2 years.
  * For the W1 timeframe - up to 6 years.
  * For the MN timeframe - up to 12 years.

 **Step 2.** Apply the grid.

 **Rule 1.**

  * In an upward movement, the grid is drawn from the bottom of the trend to the top. The 100% level will be at the beginning (at the bottom).
  * In a downward movement, the grid is drawn from the top of the trend to the bottom. The 100% level will be at the beginning (at the top).

 **Rule 2.**

  * In an upward movement, the starting point will be the first low of the trend start. The end point is the high of its end.

On traders' forums, you can find [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) for building a grid from the
end of the trend to its beginning. Or plotting for an uptrend from the
high at the starting point to the low at the ending point. All these
[options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) can be used to select the optimal levels for the current trend.

 **Example.** There is a flat, after which we can see a trend. Stretch
the grid from point "1" to point "2". Pay attention to the price
behavior in the sections highlighted with red rectangles in the colored
areas. The boundaries of the zones act as local levels of resistance and
support in them.

  * On a downtrend, the starting point will be the first high of its beginning. The end point is the low of its end.

The uptrend changes to a downtrend. Stretch the grid from the high at
point "1" to the low at point "2". Pay attention to following three
factors:

  * The downtrend was so strong that there were almost no deep corrections in it. An exception is the level 0.236, which proved to be a support level.
  * After the trend reversal at point “2”, the price touched the key correction level 0.382 twice more at points “3” and “4”, returning to the downward movement. This is an example of the Fibonacci theory working provided the correct construction of levels.

In both cases, in the H1 chart, the grid was built in a section no
longer than 3 weeks.

After the second endpoint is locked, you can drag it horizontally to the
right. This makes it more convenient to analyze the subsequent price
movement within the colored zones of the indicator.

You can build a grid not only in a line chart, but in a candlestick
chart as well. The extreme points of the shadows will be the extrema.

## Finding Fibonacci Retracement Levels

 **How to use Fibonacci levels.** No trend can be perfectly flat. Pauses
occur in an upward or downward movement, after which the price can
continue to move or roll back to the level of the previous pause. These
rollbacks are called retracements or corrections. The essence of
correction level trading is to wait for the moment of its end and open a
trade in the direction of the trend continuation.

After the sideways movement, we apply a grid from the low of the
beginning of the trend to its high. The first correction broke through
38.2%, but did not reach 50%. This means that we can’t be talking about
the changing direction yet.

As soon as the price crosses the level in the opposite direction, open a
long position with take profit at 23.86%. Open a trade during the second
correction in a similar way.

Tips for finding corrections and trade entry points:

  * Open trades when the price has crossed the Fibonacci level in the renewed movement after the correction. Take your time to enter the market, don’t rush to do it immediately after a reversal.
  * Set your profit target at the next level. Don't be greedy.
  * Be careful on the third consecutive correction. If the trend cannot return to the reversal (zero) level three times, its direction may change.

Fibonacci sequence trading using correction levels can also be explained
from the point of view of psychology.

  1. You are a trader looking for good entry points on an uptrend. Opening a trade right during the price growth is a risk. Should you be jumping into the last car of a departing train? After all, a strong movement can end at any moment. Therefore, you are waiting for either the trend to reverse, or a flat, or a correction to occur.
  2. The trend stops and, after short fluctuations, reverses down. Now the question is, what is this reversal? If it’s a correction, the price will soon reverse up again. If the trend changes, you should consider opening a short position.
  3. Stretch the Fibonacci grid and wait for the price to hit 38.2%. You know that this is a strong level at which the price often reverses in the direction of the main movement. Other traders think the same way. And when the price reaches the target point, the majority immediately place buy orders. Due to the sharply increasing volumes of buyers, the scale outweighs in favor of the bulls and the price reverses up.

This example shows that Fibonacci levels are used by traders as order
consolidation zones, which when placed simultaneously can reverse the
price in the desired direction.

## Fibonacci retracement strategy

Types of [trading strategies](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/) based on Fibonacci levels:

 **1.** Trading based on correction levels:

  * Trend-following trade on rollbacks. Fibo levels are the points of the most probable price reversal at the end of the correction. You can read more about the strategy in the review [Swing Trading Strategies][3].
  * Trend reversal trading. A breakout of the key 61.8% level may mean a change in the main price movement. A trade should be opened in this direction.

 **2.** Channel trading.

 **3.** Extension trading.

Let's take a closer look at each of these strategies with examples.

### Fibonacci chart and tools

 **1\. Trend following on rollbacks.**

This Forex Fibonacci strategy involves opening a trade at the end of the
correction. **How to plot Fibonacci levels correctly in the chart:**

  * Wait for the trend to start.
  * Wait for the start of the first correction, apply the grid. The starting point is the low for an uptrend and high for an uptrend.
  * Follow the correction. It should end before the 61.8% level.
  * Wait for the price reversal and open a trade when the nearest Fibonacci level is crossed or at the moment of a rebound from it in the direction of the main trend.
  * Close the position when the price reaches the next level. The condition is optional, depending on the acceptable risk level.

 **Example.**

 ****

A growing trend appears after a flat. As soon as the first correction
begins, we apply Fibonacci levels on the chart from the bottom point of
the trend to the high and stretch the grid to the right so that 0%
coincides with the high. There are no signals to open a trade.

The trend continues to go up. During the second correction, we pull the
grid to the next high. The first rebound of the correction took place at
the 0.236 level.

We open a trade with a take profit at the 0 mark and after the trade is
closed we pull the grid to the next high.

We open the second trade at the moment of a rebound from the level of
0.382, and set take profit at around 0.236.

We open the third trade when the price crosses the level 0.236. The
fourth - again during the rebound from the 0.236 level.

All trades closed in profit, the profitability of each one was 15-20
points.

After each new high, we pull the grid to it and wait for the next
correction to reach at least the nearest level. After another pulling of
the grid, the correction broke down the 50% level, lingered on it a
little and went down. This indicates a high probability of a trend
reversal.

Redraw the grid for a downtrend during the nearest upward correction.
The starting point is the high. The end point is the nearest low
indicated by a red arrow.

At point "1", open a short position with a stop loss just above the
level of 0.382. At point "2", we close the trade in profit without
triggering the stop order. At point "3", when the price is crossing the
line 0.236 down, open the second short position, which is closed at
point "4".

Rules for setting stop orders. The basic rule is to set a stop loss near
the next closest level. If the uptrend correction ends at 38.2%, set the
stop loss just below the 50% level so that it will not be knocked out if
the correction continues. If the correction has broken through the 61.8%
level and is clearly turning into a downtrend, the stop order is placed
just above 50%.

The first correction almost touched the level of 61.8%, I open a long
position at the moment of crossing 50%, set a stop order just below
61.8%. During the second correction, the price pushes off from the 50%
level, I open a long position at 38.2% and set the stop order just below
50%.

You don’t have to strictly follow this rule. Some traders believe that
50% is a weak level and stop loss should be placed only at key points.
If the stop loss length does not comply with your rules of risk
management, do not rely on the grid - place stop orders as you see fit.
Or use a trailing stop.

 **2\. Trend reversal trading.**

The previous type of strategies involved taking profit during the main
price movement after a correction within one inter-level range. This
approach allows you to open 3-5 or more trades in a single trend, but
the profit of each of them is no more than 20 points. Trading on a trend
reversal involves opening one trade after the trend direction changes
and keeping it in the market until a new reversal.

 **Example.**

There is a downtrend in the chart, which then turns into an uptrend. The
goal is to wait for the end of the uptrend and open a short position on
the main downward movement.

We plot the Fibonacci chart on an uptrend and wait for the reverse
movement to pass the 0.5 and 0.618 levels. The chart shows that the
0.618 level turned out to be a key level - after its breakout, the price
returned to it again, after which it continued its downward movement. A
breakdown of the 0.618 mark means confirmation of the downtrend. Open a
short position.

The chart shows that the downtrend is long and strong. There are several
[options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) for exiting:

  * Wait until the price crosses the "0" level, move the stop loss to the breakeven level and secure the position with a trailing stop of at least 20-25 points.
  * Hold the trade until the end of the day, thus saving on the swap. Go to the candlestick chart and watch the formation of reversal patterns.
  * Build a grid on the downtrend chart and close positions at additional extended levels. For example, in the chart, the first level is 1.618 or 161.8%.

 **3\. Channel trading.**

Fibonacci channels are resistance and support levels built on extremes,
but not linked to the horizontal position. If the grid of correction
levels is stretched only in the vertical and horizontal planes, the
trader is the one who determines the angle of the channels. The values
​​of the levels within the main range are the same as those of the
correction levels, but the principle of building the channel is
different - it is based on three points.

The principle of plotting Fibonacci numbers in a chart using a channel
differs from platform to platform.

For example, in MT4, you need to set pivot points at two consecutive
extrema, double-click on the line and fix the second Fibonacci line so
that it forms a channel with the first pivot line. The essence of the
strategy boils down to opening trades within channel ranges during a
rebound.

In LiteForex terminal it’s slightly different. Here you need to fix the
channel at the extremes and stretch the Fibonacci levels along the price
movement. If you have any questions, ask in the comments - I'll tell you
more about this tool.

### Fibonacci extensions

Trend-Based Fibonacci extension is based on the Elliott Wave Theory.
Elliott suggested that the market is cyclical: any growth is followed by
a decline, which turns into growth again. According to its wave pattern,
the following movements can be distinguished in the market:

  * 5 waves (1-5) in the direction of the main trend, three of which are impulse waves and the other two are corrections.
  * 3 waves (А-С) in the opposite direction, two of which are forming a new reversal trend direction and one wave is correctional.

Differences between extension and correction levels:

  1. Correction levels show the probability and depth of the corrective movement in the range from 0% to 100%, where 0% and 100% are the extremes of the current trend. Extension levels show points of possible correction in the future outside the 0-100% range.
  2. Correction levels are mainly used in scalping and swing [trading strategies](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/). They are more suitable for intraday strategies with relatively little profit. Extension levels are used in long term strategies. They serve to predict a long-term trend in relation to the current trend highs and do not take into account local corrections.
  3. Corrective levels are plotted only on one trend wave based on two points from the beginning of the trend to its current high. Fibonacci extension levels are plotted based on two waves - three points coinciding with the beginning of the Elliott waves.

 **Fibonacci extension building rules:**

Open the instrument in the LiteForex chart.

  * Wait for the beginning of the trend - the reversal of the dying old movement, which should be confirmed by the oscillator or patterns. Or the moment of exiting a flat. This point will be the first one.
  * Wait for the end of the first wave and the beginning of the correction. Correction is the second wave and its beginning is the second point.
  * Wait for the end of the correction and the beginning of the third trend wave. This is the third point. Stretch the grid.

The result of building the extension will be a grid with additional
levels greater than 100% (level "1") - 161.8 and 261.8.

The extension grid is used to predict the length of the third Elliott
wave. Based on the extrema of the first two waves, it shows the
approximate end of the third wave and the beginning of the fourth wave
of correction. The correction of the third wave usually occurs at around
161.8. But it can end earlier by transforming into the fifth wave after
the next correction.

 **How to use the Fibonacci extension. Example.**

 ****

The first and second points are placed at the beginning and end of the
first wave of an uptrend. The third point is placed at the end of the
correction, the chart is stretched to the right.

The chart shows that there are not five, but seven upward waves. The
fourth wave marked a flat between the key levels 0.382 and 0.786, the
level 1.618 became the resistance level for the 5th wave. Fibonacci
extension trading is based on opening a trade at the beginning of the
third wave with a take profit at 161.8.

The indicator shows the approximate levels of the end of the Elliott
trend waves. The instrument is not perfect and theory can be very
different from practice. However, it is quite effective as an additional
tool.

### How to calculate Fibonacci support and resistance

Correction levels themselves are resistance and support levels in a
local trend.

In a strong downtrend, local corrections repeatedly touch Fibo levels
and bounce off them. A small consolidation is observed near some levels
with testing of the same level several times. There are two trading
strategy [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/): trading within ranges or long-term trading following
the entire trend until it reverses.

The grid can be strengthened using classic levels drawn by extreme
values ​​at a small scale. The intersection or partial coincidence with
the grid will show the key points of the potential reversal.

### Fibonacci stock market predictions

The Fibonacci indicator is applicable to any markets, including stock
markets. The difference is in the nature of price behavior:

  * The stock market is characterized by rapid trend movements and small corrections up to 38.2%. It is better to use the Fibonacci extension here - it will help determine the target profit levels in a strong trend.
  * The foreign exchange market is characterized by relatively short trends and deep rollbacks to the level 50% -61.8%. Here Fibonacci retracement levels and swing trading are more suitable - opening trades at the end of a deep retracement.

 **Example.**

 ****

This is an hourly Facebook stock chart. The chart shows three high price
spikes with small rollbacks. According to Elliott's theory, these are
three wave price movements. Fibonacci levels plotted on the first high
showed the support level, from which the correction pushed off twice.

The grid plotted based on the second high shows a deeper correction.
Again, a strong level is the line 0.236, near which the price lingered
twice. The next strong level is 0.382. When breaking through it, the
price reversed in the main direction. Open a trade at the moment the
price breaks the level 0.382 from the bottom up.

The grid stretched based on the third high shows how Fibonacci levels
can be used as resistance and support levels that define the boundaries
of local price channels.

## Fibonacci trading example

 **I will show you [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) use Fibonacci lines on Forex correctly.** The
original strategy is called Scalping on Gold. Input data: asset -
XAU/USD, timeframe - M5. I will open trades at the end of local
corrections at key levels and close them at the nearest levels in the
direction of the trend.

 **Step 1. Analyzing the chart**

 ****

The screen shows 3 waves of the main movement - uptrend, downtrend and
uptrend again. At the beginning of the last uptrend, I set the Fibonacci
grid based on the last high. The screenshot shows that the price moves
within the ranges, pushing off from them in one direction or another.

The current trend breaks the 0.5 level. I’m waiting for a reversal at
the key level 0.618, where I will open a long position. If the price
moves further to the level of 0.786, it means that the trend is
gradually turning into a downward movement and the grid will need to be
rebuilt from high to low.

 **Step 2. Opening the first trade.**

 ****

As I expected, the correction ended at the key level 0.618. I opened a
position at the price reversal upwards. The target profit level is
either the 0.5 or 0.382 level. I will try and squeeze as much as I can
out of the trend.

 **Step 3. Closing the first trade.**

The 0.5 mark is broken easily in a few minutes, but the price stops just
a little short of the 0.382 level. Since the main principle of the
strategy is scalping, I close the trade at the first hint of a downward
price reversal.

 **Step 4. Opening the second trade.**

 ****

The price goes down to the “last line of defense” - 0.786. If it breaks
through it, it means that a downtrend has appeared. But the bears lack
the strength and the price goes up again towards the main direction. I
open a long position with the target of 0.618 or 0.5.

 **Step 5. Closing the second trade.**

 ****

The price hovered at 0.786 for some time, after which it returned to
0.618. I close the position at the moment of the touch and downward
reversal. If the price has already touched 0.786 and failed to rise
above 0.618, the trend direction will most likely change. It makes no
sense to open trades on a grid based on an upward trend.

 **Step 6. Summing up.**

 ****

The first trade brought in $5.50 in 6 minutes. The second trade - $4.50
in 29 minutes. Both trades closed in profit.

Meanwhile, the price broke through the 0.786 mark, confirming the
version that the correction has turned into a downtrend.

Conclusion. Fibo levels work, which I just demonstrated. You just need
to learn [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) set the grid correctly and feel the market. You can only
develop these skills by doing it.

## MA Channels FIBO indicator for MT4

MA Channels FIBO is an indicator combining Fibonacci levels and SMA. It
builds a channel of eight moving averages, four MAs on both sides of the
price. The distance between them is equal to the Fibonacci ratios: 23.5,
38.2, 50.0, 61.8. We open a position upon a rebound from the extreme
boundaries of the channel. We close by trailing stop with an analysis of
potential reversal points, which are the internal lines of the channel.

This is how it looks:

This screenshot clearly shows the behavior of prices within the channels
and the frequency of the signals. In many cases, the price moves between
the boundaries of the internal channels - such situations are
highlighted by blue rectangles in the screenshot. We also see that after
going beyond the extreme boundaries of the channel, the price returns
almost immediately.

The disadvantage of the indicator is that the breakdown of the 61.8
boundary is rare. But you can build a separate strategy on the price
movement between the borders of internal channels.

### 1\. Trading conditions and peculiarities of using MA Channels FIBO

Trading conditions:

  * Timeframe - M30 or H1.
  * Currency pair - [GBPUSD][4]. However, the strategy also works quite well for other liquid pairs.

You can download the MA Channels FIBO indicator template for MT4 here.
To add it to MT4, click “File / Open Data Folder” in the main menu. In
the folder that opens, go to the “MQL4 / Indicators” folder and copy the
indicator there. Restart the platform. The indicator will appear in the
“Insert / Indicators / Custom” list.

Indicator Settings:

####  **Conditions for opening a long position:**

  * A position is opened when the price touches the lower level 61.8 (the lower boundary of the external channel).

Stop Loss - 30 points. The target profit level is 30 points, after which
you can close 50% of the position, move the stop loss to the breakeven
level (position opening point) and set the trailing stop at the same
level with a step of 30 points (right-click on the order and select
trailing stop).

You still need stop loss with a trailing stop in case of connection
problems - the broker will not see the trailing stop, but the position
will be insured by stop loss.

There is another option - [rent a VPS server][5] to ensure uninterrupted
trading.

Please note that these figures are for 4-digit quotes!

####  **Conditions for opening a short position:**

  * A position is opened when the price touches the upper level 61.8 (the upper boundary of the external channel).

The conditions for opening/closing are similar.

Tip. Fibonacci indicator levels are shown in the chart at the end of the
current trend. But it’s much easier to appoint its own color for each
level. For example, in this strategy, the extreme Fibonacci levels 61.8
are red.

####  **Peculiarities of using a strategy with MA Channels FIBO:**

  1. Stop loss is deliberately short. It will be triggered quite often, but the return of the price from the extreme boundaries of the channel to its middle pays for the loss.
  2. If after exiting the level 61.8, stop loss was triggered, opening a trade on the next candle after a trend reversal towards the channel center.
  3. The price touching the borders of the channel means not only the body of the candle closing outside it, but also the shadow touching it.

Ideally, it makes sense to test the strategy on [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) data. You can
learn [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) do this on the [MT4][6], [FxBlue][7], or [Forex
Simulator][8] tester.

### 2\. Practical examples

 **Example 1**

The candle indicated by the arrow is a signal candle. It closes below
the border of 61.8 (red moving average). We enter on the next candle.
Despite the fact that the price goes down (the next candle after the
signal candle), it does not trigger stop loss (the Data Window shows the
parameters of this candle: the difference between the open price and the
end of the shadow is 1.2291-1.2266 = 25 points).

  *  **Important!** Any strategy involves combining different technical analysis approaches. In this case, the candle indicated by the blue arrow is a [classic pin-bar pattern][9], a reversal candle formation confirming a potential reversal. And if the shadow of this candle turned out to be more than 30 points long (and the position would close by stop loss), we would open another position at this level in accordance with Peculiarity No. 2, and all losses would be fully compensated.

The previous signal indicated by the green arrow was also effective.

 **Example 2**

 ****

This is an example of Peculiarity No. 2. A long growing candle breaks
through the upper level 61.8. At the next reversal candle shown by the
arrow, we open a short position in accordance with the conditions of the
strategy. Unfortunately, its shadow (1.2643-1.2612 = 31) touches the
stop loss. But this is okay. Here you can also see the formation of a
pin bar, after which a long downtrend begins.

This is an example of a false signal. A falling white candle is touching
the price. We would open a long position on the next growing candle, but
the price rebounds from the level and goes down again, closing the
position by stop loss.

The next position would have to be opened only on the next rising candle
(after the price reversal), however, it is not the beginning of a
confident growing trend. Situations like this happen sometimes - they
are difficult to foresee and therefore provided for in this risk
management.

The Forex Fibonacci strategy with the MA Channels FIBO indicator is
interesting because here you can build a separate tactic on the price
movement between the borders of the channels. The price can bounce off
the key Fibonacci price level, which will be a signal to enter the
market. On the other hand, a breakdown of the level will mean that the
price will go to the next level.

Examples of such bounces are shown in this screen by blue rectangles.
If, after touching / breaking the level, an opposite candle appeared,
the direction of the trend changed. If the candle did not change, the
trend moved on to the next level.

A strategy like this carries great risks, since this pattern is not
always visible. But if you add auxiliary indicators or Price Action
elements to the strategy, then why not? Let’s discuss the feasibility of
building such a strategy in the comments!

## Pros and Cons of using Fibonacci in trading

I will formulate them as a table.

Advantages| Disadvantages  
---|---  
Pivot point determining accuracy| Difficulty of determining the starting
point  
Versatility| False signals  
Accurate display of market psychology| Cannot be used in Expert Advisors  
  
 **Advantages:**

  * Pivot point determining accuracy. With the correct setting, they can quite accurately determine the moments of price reversals at early levels or confirm a change in the trend direction at later levels.
  * Versatility. The tool can be used on assets of any markets and any timeframe. But there is a caveat: the higher the timeframe, the more accurate the signals. Although Fibonacci is a favorite tool of scalpers working on M1 and M5, the price noise causes errors.
  * Accurate display of market psychology. Most of the technical indicators are based on a formula that reflects the patterns of previous periods. Fibonacci levels are built on both a mathematical algorithm and the psychology of the majority - this can be taken into account when building a Fibonacci trading system.

 **Disadvantages:**

  * Difficulty of determining the starting point. A trend is never perfectly flat. Even at the moment of exiting the flat, it is sometimes difficult to determine the starting point.
  * False signals. They happen in this tool and there are quite many of them. And these signals are not so much false as inaccurate. The price can turn around without reaching the level or after breaking it and turn around in the middle of the zone.
  * Cannot be used in Expert Advisors. It is impossible to write an automatic grid building algorithm into the EA code. Therefore, the tool cannot be used in algorithmic strategies.

The Fibonacci grid is an auxiliary tool that divides the chart into
several zones. These zones more or less reflect the likelihood of a
correction reversal or its continuation as a new trend direction. For
example, the greatest probability of a correction reversal is in the
23.6% -38.2% zone. But this is not an axiom. Use additional trend
indicators, oscillators and mind the patterns.

## Fibonacci retracement FAQ

## Fibonacci trading summary

 **1\. Use the Fibonacci lines as follows:**

  * Find a fading trend or a flat. Wait for the beginning of the trend reversal or its exit from the flat.
  * Wait for the first correction, apply the Fibonacci grid. Pull it up as new extremes appear.
  * To enter the market, wait for a rollback to the levels of 23.6%, 38.2%, or 50%. If the price goes to the 61.8% level, wait - perhaps this is the beginning of a new trend.

 **2\. Use the Fibonacci extension to determine your take profit
targets. But before that, study Elliott Wave Theory.**

 **3\. Apply the grid only to trending strategies and only as an
additional confirmation tool.**

 **4\. Use the following rules for opening a trade:**

  * Aggressive strategy: entering the market at the moment of touching the correction, placing pending orders in different directions on both sides of the key levels 38.2% and 61.8%.
  * Conservative strategy: the preliminary signal is a breakout by the correction of the Fibonacci level. The main signal: the end of the correction, the price reversal in the direction of the main direction, a repeated breakout of the same level in the opposite direction.
  * Conservative strategy for a new trend: opening a position in the new price direction after a breakout of the 61.8% level.

 **5\. Use the following rules for exiting:**

  * Aggressive strategy: close 50% of the trade upon reaching the beginning of the correction (0% level), secure 50% of the trade with a trailing stop of length equal to the distance between the 0% and 23.6% level in points.
  * Aggressive strategy: set take profit based on the extension levels.
  * Conservative strategy: close a trade when the price reaches the opposite level. For example, if a trade is opened at 38.2%, it should be closed at 23.6%.

 **6\. Use the following rules for setting stop loss:**

  * Set a stop loss at 1-3 points behind the level opposite from the trade opening point (the nearest local extremum).

Don't be afraid to experiment. There are no standard rules for using a
particular tool correctly. This review is just a theoretical basis
intended to introduce you to the concept of Fibonacci levels and the
[options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) for their application. Only by applying it in practice and
closing positions in profit you will be able to understand the
principles of working with it.

For those who want to get even deeper into using the Fibonacci number
series in technical analysis tools and the Elliott Wave Theory, I
recommend these best Fibonacci trading books:

  1. Robert Fischer Fibonacci Sequence: Applications and Strategies for Traders.
  2. Carolyn Boroden Fibonacci Trading: How to Master the Time and Price Advantage.

Try your hand in trading Fibonacci levels - open the LiteForex cabinet
[here][10]. No registration is required! If you have any questions, ask
them in the comments.

Good luck!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][11]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][12] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/19uL4EDkSkhY7cnLPtyoJ834ThFmVDDcc/edit#gid=1439860473
   2. liteforex.com/trading/fibonacci-calculator/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/swing-trading-strategies/
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD
   5. liteforex.com/trading/additional-services/vps-services/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/metatrader-4-strategy-tester/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/fx-blue-trading-simulator-review/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/forex-simulator-for-testing-trading-strategies/
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/pin-bar-how-to-identify-a-liar/
   10. my.liteforex.com/
   11. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=best-technical-indicators&slug2=fibonacci-retracement&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=best-technical-indicators&slug2=fibonacci-retracement&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus