+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-11"
description = "How much Forex traders make"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "How much Forex traders make"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-08-11

2021-08-11

How much do Forex traders make per month?Oleg Tkachenko

One of the first questions beginner traders and [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s ask is how
much Forex traders can make per month. Everyone would like to know what
they will have in exchange for their time and efforts, compared with
other earning opportunities. Some expect that Forex will yield 100% per
annum and more, and some are skeptical even about 30%. So, how much can
a trader make for real? Let's calculate together.

The article covers the following subjects:

## How much Forex traders make

Imagine a classical market where goods are sold and bought. You can be a
seller or a buyer there. For example, you buy something cheap and sell
it high, and make money from that. What will your income level depend
on?

  * Your start capital (the more goods you have, the higher your profit is)
  * Bank credit amount (you can take out a loan if you don't have enough money)
  * Asset liquidity and price volatility. The more people want to buy/sell your product, the faster you make trades. The faster the price changes, the more trades you can make in a unit of time.

The same applies to Forex, where traders also sell or buy goods, using
leverage and taking volatility and liquidity into account. Here are two
practical examples. Let's suppose the [EURUSD][1] is 1 to 2, and the
euro is a base currency.

 **Example 1.** You have a deposit of 2,000 USD. One lot is 100,000
units of the base currency ([check this article][2] for more details on
calculating a lot size). The minimum trade size set out in the account
conditions is 0.01 lots or 1,000 base units, which equals 100% of your
deposit (2,000 USD or 1,000 EUR). With 0.01 lots, the EUR/USD's one
point cost is 0.1 USD or 10 cents for four-digit quotes (100,000 * 0.01
* 0.0001).

> Thus, if your deposit is 2,000 USD and you open a trade worth 2,000
USD, one price variation step will yield you 10 cents if your forecast
is correct.

An average currency fluctuation may go up to 80-100 points in a day
based on the volatility calculator. So, you can make money from such
fluctuations in any direction! According to surveys, beginner traders
earn 100 points a day on average, making 10 USD per day.

 **Conclusion:** a trader may earn 10 USD a day with a deposit of 2,000
USD if all goes right. That means monthly profitability will be 10%
(10*20 business days = 200 USD).

However, this calculation doesn't provide for spreads and swaps that
swallow a substantial part of profits. Second, there's a risk management
rule that says a risk per trade mustn't exceed 2% of a deposit, whereas,
in my example, the risk totals 100%! Third, a trader doesn't always make
profits. With a deposit of 1,000 USD and without leverage, a trader
won't have enough funds to open a trade because 0.01 standard lots is
2,000 USD when the rate is 1:2. The real rate being 1.1066, the minimum
trade amount without leverage will be 1,106 USD.

Here's an example in the print screen below.

Example 2. Your deposit is 2,000 USD. You observe the "2% risk per
trade" rule and therefore can't do without leverage (a broker's credit
money). Assume the leverage is 1:1,000. Then, you can open a trade worth
40,000 USD ( 2000 * 0.02 * 1,000) USD. You'll then be able to buy 20,000
EUR, which corresponds to 0.2 lots (20,000/100,000). Let's calculate one
point cost: 100,000 * 0.0001 * 0.2 = 2 USD.

Conclusion:

  * With a deposit of 2,000 USD and 100 points earned a day, you can earn 200 USD (2 * 100). That makes about 4,000 USD or 200% a month. As you can see in the last screenshot or in the [traders' earning stats][3], that's real money.
  * You risk only 2% of the deposit, so the risk per trade is 40 USD.

Those are quite optimistic figures, but you need to subtract spreads,
swaps, previous losses, and withdrawal fees to calculate net profits.
Also, remember that using leverage without observing risk management
rules will most probable induce stop-outs.

There isn't any “easy” money on Forex. Experienced traders who earn a
lot in the foreign exchange market approach trading with all
responsibility: they [optimize](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/17/added-genetic-algorithm-for-trading/) their [trading strategies](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/) and thoroughly
study financial instruments and the trading platform's features. If you
want to earn much, use the following algorithm:

  * Start simple. Make sure your net monthly profit is at least 3%-5% of your investment in a real account on a stable basis. It doesn't matter how much it makes as a money equivalent. What matters is your trading system's stability and risk [optimization](https://www.fintechee.com/features/genetic-algorithm-for-trading/).
  * Gather your trading statistics (link the account to [MyFxBook][4]).
  * Continue trading as per your trading system, attract beginner traders, and make extra profits from commissions ([Social trading][5]).

>  _ **ADVICE: you can copy experienced traders’ trades onto your
account. Choose a trader from the[list][3], top up your account, and
start copying!**_

 **Let’s sum up.**

  * Your profit amount is subject to the following factors:
  * The sum of the deposit that you use in trading. Remember about risk management rules.
  * Leverage. You can increase your trade size by 10, 100, or even 200 times. However, don't forget about stop-outs.
  * Trading strategy (how often you open trades, Take-Profit levels, etc.)
  * Asset's average volatility
  * Your willingness to learn, your patience, experience, and self-confidence!

How much do Forex traders make in three months? It all depends on you:
your willingness to risk and the time you're ready to spend trading.
Sky's the limit! So, make a table based on the previous calculations and
set your goals yourself!

Look how much LiteForex's best traders earn (this is profitability
reached over the account's total lifespan. The second column shows
lifespans in days. More details are available in [Personal Profile at
LiteForex][6]) :

Everyone can earn as much!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][7]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][8] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/what-is-a-margin-call-and-stop-out-in-forex/
   3. my.liteforex.com/traders?type=profit
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/myfxbook-overview-of-the-[functions](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/basic-functions/)-analysis-of-the-account-trading-performance/
   5. my.liteforex.com/traders
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/lets-look-into-liteforexs-new-client-space/
   7. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=how-much-do-forex-traders-make-per-month&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=how-much-do-forex-traders-make-per-month&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus