+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-11"
description = "US dollar price forecast 11 August 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 11 August 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-08-11

2021-08-11

Dollar divided the crowd's opinion. Forecast as of 11.08.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

The principle “buy greenback on rumor, sell on the fact” may lead to
[EURUSD][1] correction after the release of inflation data. Should we be
afraid of this correction? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up
a trading plan.

## Fundamental US dollar forecast for a week

When do the trends reverse? When the crowd is sure they are right! This
was the case in January, when the slow unfolding of the vaccination
process in the EU forced the [EURUSD][1] **** bulls, who hoped for the
level of 1.25, to give up in a panic. This was the case in June, when
the Fed suddenly stopped being passive, signaling a possible rate hike
as early as 2022. But the market consensus assumed that the central bank
would continue to stick to its wait-and-see approach for a very long
time. Currently, the opinions of banks on the fate of the main currency
pair are divided. Is the downtrend still in effect?

Goldman Sachs believes that the US economy will slow down as the fiscal
impulse turns negative, and the slowdown in inflation will allow the Fed
to be in standby mode for a long time. Bank of America, by contrast, is
confident that as markets assess the reality of the Fed's monetary
[policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) change, the accompanying normalization in securities and
commodity prices will support the greenback. And finally, in the
derivatives market, starting from July 9, hedge funds have been steadily
reducing the net shorts in the US dollar, which had reached multi-month
peaks by that time.

### Dynamics of the USD index and dollar speculative positions



 _Source: Bloomberg._

The forecasts for the USD index are based on inflation. Proponents of
its slowing down talk about the gradual disappearance of temporary
factors associated with limited supply. Their opponents insist that
massive fiscal stimulus, labor market imbalances and rising rental
prices will make high inflation a long-term factor and force the Fed to
aggressively normalize monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/).

The time has come for a reversal of the long-term uptrend in US
Treasuries, according to M&G Investments, as huge fiscal stimulus and
labor shortages will lead to higher wages, overcoming long-term
deflationary trends. These trends are associated with the rise of
technology and the impact of globalization on international trade. The
Treasury yield rally is exactly what the greenback needs right now to
continue its offensive on the world's major currencies in Forex. This is
proved by the events of August 10, when the [EURUSD][1] pair reached the
[previously indicated target][2] of 1.1715, despite the 45th record
closing of the [S&P 500][3] in 2021 due to the adoption of the $1
trillion infrastructure project by the Senate.

If inflation is at the core of market ideas and positioning, why
shouldn't the US dollar strengthen on expectations of the July US CPI
data release? Yes, Bloomberg experts predict a slowdown in consumer
prices from 5.4% to 5.3% YoY and from 0.9% to 0.5% MoM, and core
inflation from 4.5% to 4.3% YoY. However, the indicators will continue
to be near multi-year highs.

### Inflation dynamics in the US

 _Source: Bloomberg._

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Of course, there is a risk of working out the principle of “buy
greenback on rumor, sell on the fact”, but when major traders use the
[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) to adjust their positions, one should not be afraid of [EURUSD][1]
growth. The first of the three [indicated targets][4] for 1.1715 has
been met. Continue to sell the pair on the correction.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. lite.forex/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-is-to-wake-the-sleeping-dog-up-forecast-as-of-21072021/
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   4. lite.forex/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-went-north-forecast-as-of-09082021/