+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-22"
description = "Euro price forecast 22 February 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 22 February 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-22

2021-02-22

EURUSD: chained together. Forecast as of 22.02.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The Treasury yield rally and the divergence in the economic expansion of
the USA and the euro-area do not send the [EURUSD][1] down yet. What is
the reason? Where will the euro-dollar go next? Let us discuss the Forex
outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

The USA manages the crisis successfully: the number of new COVID-19 is
declining, vaccination is progressing, and the economic surprise index,
which shows the difference between actual and projected data, featured
the best rise since late 2017. As a result, the Treasury yield is
rallying up, which, however, doesn’t strengthen the US dollar, as it did
in January.

### Dynamics of US economic surprise index

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

It would seem that an increase in the attractiveness of the US assets,
along with the growth-gap between the US and the euro area, should have
started the [EURUSD][1] correction. The problem is that the US, having a
large amount of debts, needs to lure foreign [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s to auctions. This
is achieved in two ways: by increasing the yield or weakening the
greenback. It looks like in February, both methods are applied due to
the approaching $ 1.9-trillion fiscal stimulus. In addition, if bond
rates are growing not only in the United States but also in Europe, and
carry traders, as well as emerging markets’ currencies, are challenged
in this situation, then why would the dollar grow against the euro?

The euro bears could have benefited more from the Treasury yield rally
but for the Fed dovish stance. Ahead of Jerome Powell's speech to
Congress, there was a message on the Fed [website](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/website-for-forex-trading/) that monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)
will continue to support the economy until the recovery is complete. New
York Federal Reserve President John Williams said he is not worried
about the sharp rise in Treasury yields, as it is most likely associated
with the expectations of rapid growth in US GDP.

Different rates of economic expansion are an essential driver of forex
pricing. And the fact that the European Commission expects a double-dip
recession in the euro area, and JP Morgan raises the forecast for US GDP
to 6.4% in 2021 and 2.8% in 2022 should support the greenback. However,
the [EURUSD][1] is not falling, which suggests that this advantage of
the euro bears is underestimated.

### Dynamics of [EURUSD][1] and economic growth expectations



 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

Investors understand that the world economies are chained together
because of the pandemic. The faster is the US economic recovery, the
more chances the euro-area economy has to rebound. Besides, traders
remember the events of mid-2020, when the euro-area GDP rose sharply
amid the lifting of the lockdown. Nobody wants to be caught off guard if
it happens again.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Therefore, the [EURUSD][1] bulls have the advantages to outperform their
opponents. The major currency pair is likely to continue consolidation
until there are signals of the euro-area economic recovery. The matter
is in the range of the trading channel. If the price breaks out the
resistance at 1.215, it should grow towards 1.221 and 1.224 or even
higher. Otherwise, if the price doesn’t consolidate above level 1.215,
it could go down to 1.208 and 1.204.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true