+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-22"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (22 February 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (22 February 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-22

2021-02-22

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 22.02.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

After reaching all the targets within the gold medium-term downtrend, a
correction occurs.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The medium-term chart shows oil testing the resistance zone Target Zone
5 [59.82 - 59.31]. Last week, the traders tried to break out the zone
but failed. This week, look for oil sales according to the “false
breakout” pattern with the target at the trend key support [57.71 -
57.26].

The oil short-term trend reversed down as the price closed below
Intermediary Zone [59.97 - 59.75] on February 19. Now the price is
correcting. Most likely, these are speculators' attempts to achieve
better prices to sell.

Beneficial prices to sell oil will be between the broken-out IZ and the
new one. The zone [61.05 - 59.75] is used for opening a short position.

The trend reversal up is required for purchases, so the traders need to
break out the level of 61.05 and close the price above the level at the
US trading session.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

Sell from the level of 60.66. TakeProfit: 58.65. StopLoss: 61.65.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

After reaching all the targets within the gold medium-term downtrend, a
correction occurs. The probable target of the correction is the test of
the resistance zone [1821 - 1815], from which you can again consider
sales.

The local trend is down. The location of the margin zones indicates
this. Target Zone [1775 - 1765] was a strong support last week. The
traders' reaction to the zone can now be seen.

As part of the correction, the price reached the Additional Zone [1790 -
1788]. As long as there is resistance, it is profitable to enter new
short trades to update the last week's low.

If the price consolidates above the level of 1787, then a technical buy
pattern “false breakout” will form. This will contradict our conclusion
about the priority for selling, so it would be better to wait for the
development of a deep correction with the target at the Intermediary
Zone [1821 - 1815].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1790 - 1788]. TakeProfit: 1760. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1821 - 1815]. TakeProfit: 1760. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The border of the EURUSD medium-term downtrend is at the level of
1.2150. This week, expect a test of the level and the formation of a
sell pattern after. The target will be the February low.

Last week the short-term trend reversed up. On Friday, the US trading
session closed above the Intermediary Zone [1.2111 - 1.2103]. The main
target for this week is the upper Target Zone [1.2199 - 1.2183].

Today, consider euro purchases from Additional Zone [1.2104 - 1.2100]
with a target at the last Friday high.

If the Additional Zone is broken out downside, it will be possible to
sell the euro down to the Intermediary Zone [1.2064 - 1.2056].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.2104 - 1.2100]. TakeProfit: 1.2143. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. If the price breaks out the Additional Zone [1.2104 - 1.2100], sell. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1.2064 - 1.2056]. StopLoss: above the next local high.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-22022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-22022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus