+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-01"
description = "Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for today"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for today"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 1, 2020

July 1, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 01.07.2020Alex Rodiоnov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil is now trading in the middle-term uptrend.

However, oil buyers cannot yet break out Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92].
So, expect a correction down to the key support zone [33.64 – 32.86].
After the key support is tested, we shall enter buy trades according to
the patterns with the target at the high of June.

![LiteForex: Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
today][1]

Let us analyze the short-term chart. Oil is trading in the short-term
uptrend, with the upside target to break through the high of June 23.

Oil traders broke out Additional Zone [39.06 – 38.87] and consolidated
the price above yesterday. The 1-2-3 pattern to buy worked out. So, if
you have long positions open, I recommend moving them to the breakeven.

If the price again goes down to IZ, we shall expect the breakout and the
trend reversal down.

![LiteForex: Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
today][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Hold up buy trades entered in Additional Zone [39.06 - 38.87]. TakeProfit: 41.40. StopLoss: at breakeven.

  2. If Intermediary Zone [37.54 — 37.15] is broken out, sell at the market price. TakeProfit: Target Zone [33.64 - 32.86]. StopLoss: 38.20.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold price is moving towards Target Zone 6 [1817.2 – 1811.2]. The
middle-term gold price trend is up. Enter purchases on the correction
according to the pattern.

![LiteForex: Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
today][4]

Let us analyze the shorter timeframe. The XAUUSD is trading in the
short-term uptrend, whose target is to test Gold Zone [1812.5 – 1808.0].

The local high was broken through yesterday, so we should move the
margin zones. Additional Zone is in the range of [1765.4 – 1763.3],
Intermediary Zone is in the price range of [1744.9 – 1740.8]. If the
local high is broken through again, we shall move the zones up following
the price.

To enter new gold buy trades, I recommend expecting a correction down
and looking for a buy pattern in the zones indicated above.

![LiteForex: Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
today][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1765.4 - 1763.3]. TakeProfit: 1785.5, Gold Zone [1812.5 - 1808.0]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1744.9 - 1740.8]. TakeProfit: 1785.5, Gold Zone [1812.5 - 1808.0]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro to dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The EURUSD is trading in the middle-term downtrend, according to the
margin zones trading method. The downside target is Target Zone 2
[1.1058 - 1.1040]. The strong support that prevents the euro from a
deeper fall is Target Zone [1.1240 – 1.1222].

Traders are now trying to break out the support and form a 1-2-3 sell
pattern. If they succeed, we shall sell the euro according to the
pattern.

![LiteForex: Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
today][7]

Yesterday, the price worked out the key resistance of the short-term
downtrend, the local low was tested. After that, the buyers reacted and
the price started growing. The price growth has now stopped under
Additional Zone [1.1241 – 1.1236]. If this resistance zone is broken
out, the euro-dollar traders will again try to break out Intermediary
Zone [1.1290 — 1.1281].

Intermediary Zone is the border of the short-term downtrend. As long as
the price is trading below, we shall consider sell trades according to
the pattern. Once the price breaks out IZ and consolidates above, we
shall enter buy trades with the target in the upper Target Zone [1.1390
— 1.1372].

![LiteForex: Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for
today][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:   **

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1290 - 1.1281].
TakeProfit: 1.1192, Target Zone [1.1166 - 1.1148]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 01.07.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_010720_1.png?w=30&s=df7e0e71c5ebefc68c772917daf138bb
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_010720_2.png?w=30&s=d23d894d292c5ae554858deb7039dae3
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_010720_1.png?w=30&s=a0ba8a71d0bc8c2d57a17bc61a070024
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_010720_2.png?w=30&s=d5ab2a2f4843e3765cfb90a0cb75e594
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_010720_1.png?w=30&s=6bba9aa43113e1fd23256f24143ab9a2
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_010720_2.png?w=30&s=12783556fde0517ee1dd10c96899fa13
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-01072020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-01072020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_91.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=058894730bc5225b7929722cf2241011