+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-01"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 01.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 01.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 1, 2020

May 1, 2020

Euro has started the game badlyDmitri Demidenko

## The ECB easier lending conditions are not enough to set the EUR/USD
bulls back

Wisdom comes with experience. The former ECB president, Mario Draghi,
was good at communicating with markets. Christine Lagarde is learning to
do it. Yes, she didn’t repeat the mistake made in Mar, saying that the
central bank wouldn’t put up with high risks of the euro-area financial
fragmentation. However, she doesn’t yet understand how the markets will
react if they don’t get what they expected. Even if not all [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s
counted on an increase in the QE pace in April, but they expected the
announcement that the ECB would buy “fallen angels”, the bonds, whose
rating could be downgraded to a “junk” level amid the pandemic. The ECB
disappointed the markets. Furthermore, Lagarde said that the OMT,
program developed during the 2012 debt crisis, is not relevant under the
current conditions.

After it became known that the euro-area GDP drop in the second quarter
had been the worst ever, the Governing Council should have eased its
monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). Earlier, the euro-area economy, having been hit by the
pandemic, down by 3.8% Q-o-Q, and 14.4% Y-o-Y, while the US economy
dropped by 1.2% Q-o-Q, and 4.8% Y-o-Y. However, the ECB balance sheet
expanded by €645 billion, while the Fed’s balance sheet increased by
$2.3 trillion. The ECB should take active measures. The regulator cut
the interest rate on the LTROs from – 0.5% to -1%, it also launched
series of additional longer-term refinancing operations, called pandemic
emergency longer-term refinancing operations (PELTROs) at the interest
rate of -0.25%, whose resources can be effectively used when the old
loan tranche expires.

 **Dynamics of European GDP**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 01.05.2020][1]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

It hasn’t been enough to satisfy the market. Investors expected some
clues on the situation of Italy, Spain, and other euro-area countries
that suffered the most from the pandemic. It is not yet clear whether
the ECB will buy fallen angels. Besides, Christine Lagarde has said the
OMT program, suggesting direct funding for stressed countries, which
have the ESM credit line, is not appropriate in the current situation.
Although it was announced that the regulator wouldn’t allow the euro-
area fragmentation, the GDP data for the first quarter increased the
risks of the Eurozone break-up. Italy’s economy was down by 17.6%, Spain
– 19.2%, but Austria's growth contracted by just 9.6%, besides, the EU
leaders can’t reach an agreement on the from of the financial aid,
whether there should be grants or credits. This makes the ECB gloomy
forecast, suggesting the euro-area economy should drop by 12% in 2020,
likely to come true.

In addition to the disappointment in the ECB, which failed to meet the
market’s expectations, the [EUR/USD][2] surge to its two-week high also
resulted from the rebalancing of the euro positions with the option
strike at $1.08. That is a technical factor, which has a short-term
effect. The euro has many flaws, so it can’t be rising steadily.
Therefore, it makes sense to enter EUR/USD sell trades on the pair’s
rise that should be followed by a rebound from resistances at 1.0965,
1.107, and 1.117.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Euro has started the game badly][5]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/euro-area-gdp-01-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=ba896e03011a7f489d226684f24e741a
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-has-started-the-game-badly&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-has-started-the-game-badly&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-01-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=05d306a3f4b20f2b0955859ef52d5943