+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-01"
description = "White House blames China"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "White House blames China"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 1, 2020

May 1, 2020

Dollar needs a new scapegoatDmitri Demidenko

##  **Victory at presidential election might slip away unless the guilty
are found**

Enough hate, let’s start violence! Donald Trump threatens China with new
measures in response to coronavirus. The US president isn’t pleased
either with the US death toll or with the US economy’s recession. He
blames China, and the US administration has started thinking about
punishing the guilty. Rumour has it that Washington might refuse to pay
$1 trillion of American debt owned by Beijing.  White House economic
adviser Larry Kudlow says it’s just a rumour.  Investors’ full trust in
US treasuries is a sacred cow. But is there smoke without fire?

Being a president is cool, but there’s a small problem - people. People
demand bread and circus but get whisky and TV, because of COVID-19.  All
was good for Trump until February: the economy had been growing, China
had put up a white flag and signed an agreement beneficial to the USA,
trust in Trump had been increasing and stock indexes had been updating
[historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) maximums. One could think the winner of the 2020 presidential
election was determined. Then something went wrong. The invisible hand
of the market was the first to give the finger. [S&P 500][1] was falling
so fast that seemed to hit rock bottom every time.  Well, apparently
rock bottom has a basement.

![LiteForex: White House blames China][2]

What’s more, the USA faced the deepest recession since Great Depression
of 1930 and tens of thousands of people were killed by coronavirus.
Donald Trump understood the victory was slipping away and had to ask:

> \- Doctor, please check if it’s a tic or just a pulse.

![LiteForex: White House blames China][3]

Unsurprisingly, the US president started looking for the guilty. He was
doing that when all was fine, so why shouldn’t he do the same when a
recession is ruling? Jerome Powell can’t be a scapegoat any more. What a
pity. The Fed not only dropped the rate almost to zero, but also
increased its balance sheet by $2.3 trillion since the beginning of
March by buying unlimited amounts of treasuries and MBS. So, no blame
lies with the Fed. China is another thing. According to Trump, China was
fulfilling the obligations under the trade agreement, but the agreement
isn’t as important as coronavirus now.

![LiteForex: White House blames China][4]

We have a reason for praising Trump:  while others are moaning and
groaning **,** he decided to punish those who made the world groan.
Besides, the idea of lifting quarantine doesn’t seem to be that bad.
There’s a risk of catching another wave of coronavirus, but a horrible
end is better than endless horror. And people’s opinion is subject to
changes. Even Hemingway once wrote that every day is a new day and it is
better to be lucky, but then shot himself all the same.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of SPX in real time mode

![Dollar needs a new scapegoat][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/fig-01-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=206ffa7997d41ce40199257eae06f72a
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/trump-01-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=637808342c6d5d117f8b0c299a0a07ed
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/goat-01-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=984fd49ed41ba5dbd295ada34a42ac19
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=dollar-needs-a-new-scapegoat&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=dollar-needs-a-new-scapegoat&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/liteforex-blog-trump-01-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=046b3ba7a34f32ec2b0555f44389f264