+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-23"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 23, 2020

July 23, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.07.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil price is trading under the resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92].
Buyers have not yet broken this zone out. However, the oil middle-term
trend is up.

The further trend will depend on whether buyers consolidate the price
above TZ 5. If they do, the next upside target will be Target Zone 6
[49.17 – 48.42], and we shall enter new purchases on the correction.
Otherwise, the price will be corrected down to the trend key support
[35.54 — 34.86].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.07.2020][1]

The short-term uptrend continues. Traders try to consolidate the price
above TZ5. The US sessions haven’t yet closed the price above the zone.

If the resistance is broken out, the next upside target will be Gold
Zone 5 [45.04 – 44.67].

If there starts a correction, we shall enter oil buy trades according to
the patterns in the strong support zones, Additional Zone [40.64 -
40.47] and Intermediary Zone [38.94 – 38.60].

The oil trading ideas remain the same.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.07.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [40.64 - 40.47]. TakeProfit: 42.30. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Sell if Additional Zone [40.64 - 40.47] is broken out. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [38.94 - 38.60]. StopLoss: above the next local high.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold price reached Target Zone 7 [1877.2 – 1871.2] yesterday. The
uptrend is likely to continue. If the gold price breaks out the
resistance, the next upside target will be Target Zone 8 [1937.2 –
1931.2].

The border of the uptrend is now in the zone of [1794.5 — 1786.3].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.07.2020][4]

Let us now analyze the gold short-term uptrend. The price, following
this trend, broke out Target Zone 2 [1862.8 – 1853.7] yesterday. The
next upside target is Gold Zone 2 [1898.8 – 1894.7].

As the trend is up, we shall primarily enter gold purchases on the
corrections. The strong support zone are now AZ [1856.0 - 1854.0] and IZ
[1835.5 – 1831.4]. It will be relevant to buy when there is a buy
pattern after the test of these zones. An intermediate target will be
today’s local high.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.07.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1856.0 - 1854.0]. TakeProfit: 1876.0, Gold Zone 2 [1898.8 - 1894.7]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1835.5 - 1831.4]. TakeProfit: 1876.0, Gold Zone 2 [1898.8 - 1894.7]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro to dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The EURUSD middle-term uptrend continues. We shall continue looking for
buy entries on the correction to the trend key support that is now in
the price range of [1.1419 - 1.1400].

Traders consolidated the price above Target Zone 2 [1.1550 – 1.1532] for
the first time yesterday. To confirm the zone’s breakout, expect the
second consolidation at the US session.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.07.2020][7]

The EURUSD price is trying to break out the resistance Target Zone
[1.1567 – 1.1549]. It hasn’t yet consolidated above the zone. If there
is a consolidation today, the next upside target will be Gold Zone
[1.1649 – 1.1640].

Otherwise, the price should be corrected down to one of the strong
supports, Additional Zone [1.1555 - 1.1551] or Intermediary Zone [1.1510
– 1.1501]. It will be relevant to enter new purchases in the trend
according to the pattern in these support zones. The upside target will
be at yesterday’s high.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.07.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1555 - 1.1551]. TakeProfit: 1.1600. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1510 - 1.1501]. TakeProfit: 1.1600. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.07.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_230720_1.png?w=30&s=3b96028a3d6b0ea1a462cb71a1be2af3
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_230720_2.png?w=30&s=da1fca85ad10725642b15e3b28e87484
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_230720_1.png?w=30&s=c8e44acb00affdcaa45f1f6f655b6189
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_230720_2.png?w=30&s=c2a82d7d3dd0059bdb463abaed8bc033
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_230720_1.png?w=30&s=2105ed3a8f61bdbee40a4652f778933e
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_230720_2.png?w=30&s=cf3a34ba4c6474c10bf47129f5df9229
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-23072020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-23072020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_97.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=0fc441d509736af70b14714e9b14fd92