+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-23"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 23.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 23.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 23, 2020

July 23, 2020

EUR/USD forecast: Three reasons to sell U.S. dollarDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental U.S. dollar forecast for today

### The USD should weaken amid global changes in the financial world

For many decades, the entire financial world has depended on the USA.
The US economy has been the strongest, the US securities market has been
the largest, and the US dollar has been the most demanded currency.
However, the unipolar world does not support global development, it
slows it down. The destruction of the old system has started with the
pandemic. China’s economy is likely to outperform the US, European bonds
and stocks should take the lead from the US peers, and the share of the
greenback in foreign exchange reserves, international settlements, and
conversion operations will decline. That is why the [EUR/USD][1] long-
term outlook is bullish.

According to USB, the Chinese economy will grow by 2.5% this year.
Taking into account the drop in the US GDP this year and the slow
recovery expected in 2021-2022, China will be able to overtake the US by
the late 2020s. It is is a very positive [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) bit for the export-led
euro-area. Washington doesn’t like it. The US arranges trade battles,
closes China’s consulate in Houston, the US says it could break
diplomatic relations with China, but the process is going on, and it
can’t be stopped already!

The US economic strength now looks like a bubble. All those strong data
on the US retail sales and other economic indicators amid a poor reading
of the US jobs data result from the US huge fiscal and monetary
stimulus, which is much bigger than in other advanced economies.
However, here is a fierce debate between Republicans and Democrats over
the new aid package. When the money pumped by the Fed doesn’t have a
direct place to apply, the US dollar is weakening.

### Forecast for GDPs and fiscal stimulus

 _![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 23.07.2020][2]_

_Source: Wall Street Journal_

The [S&P 500][3] P/E ratio is at the highest level since the dotcom
crisis. At that time, the bubble burst, and it could burst now. The US
treasury yield is close to its all-time low, the market is obviously
overbought. However, once the interest rates start rising, the Fed will
find a place for financial repression. Investors didn’t have any
alternatives before, but they do now after the French-German plan has
been approved.

The project is called a milestone in European [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) and is compared to
the proposal of the first Treasury Secretary Alexander Hamilton, who
offered to by the US government debts in the 18th century. The European
Commission’s bonds are the obligation of the EU, not its member-states.
The ECB can buy the bonds, so, there is hardly a risk of default. The
market has got a reliable asset competitive with Treasuries. Besides, it
has got such an attractive asset as bonds of the euro-area peripheral
countries, competitive with the emerging markets’ bonds. Emerging
markets have cut the interest rates by 5,500 basis points since early
2019, which makes their bonds less appealing.

### Dynamics of borrowing costs

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 23.07.2020][4]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

In my opinion, the global changes in the world’s financial system, the
capital outflow from the US into European markets and a less important
role of the US dollar in the international settlements, global FX
reserves, and conversion operations will support the [EUR/USD][1] rally
to 1.18 and 1.22 in six and twelve months.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![EUR/USD forecast: Three reasons to sell U.S. dollar][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/gdp-stimulus-23-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=aa33eeb37f830bc3fe2b1c15919a5287
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/usa-em-23-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=34d7ab3ae0f8bc40544c68b26d19ba65
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-three-reasons-to-sell-us-dollar&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-three-reasons-to-sell-us-dollar&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-23-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=100e000670c20dae5751dc75581e6e82