+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-23"
description = "GBP/USD forecast for 23.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "GBP/USD forecast for 23.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 23, 2020

July 23, 2020

GBP/USD forecast: Pound is on a thin iceDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental Pound forecast for today

### It is very risky to buy the GBP/USD on the UK strong PMI data, but
it can yield a high profit in case of success

Sterling is a kind of allegory that proves the importance of distancing
during the pandemic. The UK has broken ties with all its partners. There
are disputes with the EU over Brexit, with China – over Hong Kong, with
the US - over the UK’s unwillingness to facilitate the access of the US
companies to the British agricultural market, with Russia - because of
its alleged interference in the referendum on Scotland independence.
Nonetheless, the [GBP/USD][1] is growing in price, which could prove
that the breakup of the political and economic ties has a positive
impact on the UK. It is a paradox? It may be, but the pound seems to
benefit from paradoxes.

The [EUR/USD][2] major growth drivers are the divergence in the economic
growth, the capital outflow from the USA into Europe, and the increase
in the euro’s share in the global central banks’ FX reserves. The pound,
however, doesn’t have such advantages. The German stock index [DAX30][3]
is about to enter the green area for the first time since the year’s
beginning, and the EuroStoxx 600 capitalization has been up from March’s
high by $3.5 trillion. The [FTS100][4], however, has been 17% down since
January. According to BofA Merrill Lynch, the UK is the least favorite
place in the world for asset managers. Scotiabank has found net short
speculative positions in only two currencies. The sterling is one of
them.

### U.K. stocks compared to the global stocks

![LiteForex: GBP/USD forecast for 23.07.2020][5]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The UK economy is also weak. Its slow recovery trend gives a reason to
expect the BoE interest rate cut below zero and the expansion of the UK
QE. Great Britain could have received the EU funding as one of the most
affected by COVID-19 European countries, but Brexit has destroyed such
an opportunity. The country has to solve its economic problems without
any assistance.

### Forecasts of the UK GDP

![LiteForex: GBP/USD forecast for 23.07.2020][6]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The major advantage of the [GBP/USD][1] bulls is the weak dollar, rather
than the strong pound. A small rise of the[ EUR/GBP][7] confuses me a
little. In my onion, it results from the hopes for a Brexit deal and the
realization of the market principles. When there is too much negative in
the market, any positive [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) bit can encourage the bears to exit the
shorts. If the UK PMI data are better than Bloomberg experts expect, the
sterling can well break through the June’s high versus the US dollar.

Boris Johnson is unwilling to make concessions in response to the EU’s
concessions on rights to fish, the supremacy of the European Court of
Justice, and state subsidy mechanisms. However, people familiar with the
matter say the UK Prime Minister is willing to strike a deal. If there
is no deal, it will be not just another blow to his reputation after the
denial of COVID-19, it will also increase the likelihood of another
referendum on Scotland's independence.

In my opinion, the hope for the Brexit deal concluded at the last moment
amid the greenback’s weakness can push the[ GBP/USD][1] up to1.29. The
risk of the fall will be rising with the pair’s growth. Therefore, one
could take a part of the profits from the pound longs entered at levels
$1.2535 and $1.255.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][8]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][9] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![GBP/USD forecast: Pound is on a thin ice][10]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=FDAX&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=FTSE&returnUrl=true
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/stocks-uk-world-23-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=5b4edd498e2895e171bef2bb7ef5f383
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/forecast-gdp-uk-23-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=10345f9f02a43b4061f773e7b933ab70
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURGBP&returnUrl=true
   8. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gbpusd-forecast-pound-is-on-a-thin-ice&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=gbpusd-forecast-pound-is-on-a-thin-ice&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-gbpusd-23-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=6a6315153091141997fad379b207a01d