+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-29"
description = "Pound price forecast 29 July 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 29 July 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-07-29

2021-07-29

Pound is not cheese in trap. Forecast as of 29.07.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The [GBPUSD][1] rally over six of the last seven trading days on Forex
came as a complete surprise to many banks and investment companies. Will
it continue? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan

## Weekly pound fundamental forecast

After the [GBPUSD][1] prices reached a 5-month low at the end of the
second decade of July, many banks and investment companies jumped from
the bulls' camp to the bears' one. The reasons for this were the
resuscitation of the Brexit topic, the increase of number of COVID-19
cases, disappointing GDP statistics and the UK PMI data, as well as the
dovish stance of the BoE. It seemed that sterling was ready to go to the
bottom, but it doesn't work that way!

Boris Johnson took a big risk, opening the economy on July 19, because a
further deterioration in the epidemiological situation could lead to new
lockdowns. It looks like the decision to rely on vaccination is paying
off! With about 56% of the UK adult population fully vaccinated and
almost 70% receiving at least one dose, the third wave of COVID-19
turned out to be much less terrible than the previous ones. The number
of COVID-19 cases is declining, and the IMF raises its forecast for UK
GDP for 2021 by 1.7 pp to 7%. This is the best economic growth since
1980!

### Dynamics of COVID-19 cases in the UK

###

 _Source: Trading Economics._

Dissatisfied with numerous checks in the Irish Sea, London threatened
Brussels to use Article 16 of the EU Withdrawal Act, which provides for
the possibility of any party to suspend checks unilaterally if they
cause serious economic and (or) social damage to the state, and asked
for the introduction of a waiting regime. The European Union has
announced that it is suspending the next stage of the trial, which
started in March, and Bloomberg's insider claims that negotiations will
continue throughout the summer. As a result, the degree of political
risks decreased, and the pound grew against the US dollar during six of
the last seven trading days on Forex.

While most members of the BoE's Monetary Policy Committee believe that
premature withdrawal of monetary stimulus could be costly for the
economy, at least two officials are hawkish. The vote to keep the
previous QE volumes at 7 to 2 at the BoE’s August meeting is a bullish
driver for the pound. Markets now believe the BoE will do more efforts
to normalize monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) faster than the Fed over the next 18
months.

### Dynamics of the expected rate hike

 _Source: Bloomberg._

In my opinion, the [GBPUSD][1] rally, all other things being equal, may
continue until August 5 due to expectations of BoE’s hawkish signals,
followed by a sell on the facts.

### Weekly [GBPUSD][1] trading plan

The mid-term outlook for the pound does not look as good as it is now.
The influence of doves in the MPC is higher than in the FOMC, and
negotiations on the Northern Irish checks have been postponed but not
terminated. In my opinion, if the [GBPUSD][1] bulls manage to overcome
the resistance at 1.395 and 1.397, the risks of continuing the rally to
1.408-1.409 will increase, so it will be possible to enter sales.
Closing the day below 1.3925 is a sign of sellers' weakness and a reason
for entering shorts.



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true