+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-29"
description = "US dollar price forecast 29 July 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 29 July 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-07-29

2021-07-29

Dollar doesn’t fear Delta. Forecast as of 29.07.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The Fed won’t suspend monetary normalization despite the increase in the
number of COVID-19 cases. The US economy has adapted, and the QE
tapering should soon start. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up
a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

The US economy has made progress, but this is not enough to make pivotal
decisions. Jerome Powell needs several strong jobs reports to start
tapering the $120-billion asset purchase program. Furthermore, the Fed
is not yet willing to discuss the federal funds rate hike. The central
bank could not have been more dovish in the current conditions, and the
[EURUSD][1] was up to the middle of figure 18. However, there is one
more important factor. Jerome Powell is not afraid of the Delta, which
means that the Fed will not return to its passive attitude.

Despite the rise in the number of COVID-19 cases, the economy has
adapted to the pandemic, according to Jerome Powell. According to the
Bloomberg consensus forecast, amid mass vaccinations, fiscal and
monetary support, the US economy grew by 8.5%, which is the second-best
result in the last 39 years. The US economy may have reached its peak,
but this does not mean that it is weak. The recovery is entering a stage
of maturity, and the Fed can safely normalize monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/).

### Dynamics of US GDP



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

In general, Powell didn’t seem to be very sincere. He did not provide
many details regarding the discussion about the QE tapering. According
to the Fed Chair, there are several opinions about which time frame will
be appropriate. It took the Fed 10 months to complete the previous
quantitative easing program in 2014. 14 months after finishing the asset
purchase program, the Fed started raising interest rates.

In my opinion, everything will happen faster now. The 2020 recession
lasted only two months, and the US economy returned to 2019 levels in
the second quarter of 2021. At the same time, Treasury yields are not
growing as in 2013 during the taper tantrum, which supports favorable
financial conditions and encourages the Fed to start normalizing the
monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). There are many doves in the FOMC. They insist on the
temporary nature of high inflation, argue that the United States is far
from full employment, and ignore the overheating of the housing market,
unwilling to stop buying mortgage bonds earlier than Treasuries.

The dispute about this issue is clear from the words of Jerome Powell.
He noted that the Fed is likely to get out of both types of papers
simultaneously, although officials may decide to reduce the supply of
mortgage-backed securities more quickly. Obviously, the Fed Chairman
tries to balance the opinions of the FOMC members, and the uncertainty
will continue as long as the US economic data are mixed.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Thus, there is a dispute among the FOMC members about the timeframe and
the order of tapering the QE. The Fed admits that the US economy has
reached progress, there is no fear of the pandemic. The US central bank
is unwilling to remain passive and should start normalizing its monetary
[policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). It means the [EURUSD][1] rally will not continue for a long
time, and it is relevant to sell the pair on the rise, followed by the
pullback from the resistance levels of 1.188 and 1.195.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true