+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-10"
description = "Japanese Yen price forecast 10 August 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Japanese Yen price forecast 10 August 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-08-10

2021-08-10

Yen is rising. Forecast as of 10.08.2021Dmitri Demidenko

[USDJPY][1] has finally started to rise. Nevertheless, the pair's
further fate depends on the dynamics of the US Treasury bonds' yield and
overcoming key levels. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a
trading plan.

## Monthly Japanese yen fundamental forecast

A five-day US Treasury yields rally put an end to the yen's heroism. The
Japanese currency is in a difficult situation. [USDJPY][1] longs
[entered at levels 109.85 and 110.15][2] are in the money, while the
Japanese government's clumsy attempts to revise the CPI basket to win
the election alongside the latest financial statements from the world's
largest pension fund, GPIF, only make matters worse.

Perhaps the main paradox of 2021 is the stubborn reluctance of Treasury
yields to rise in response to the rapid recovery of the global economy
and fast-growing inflation in the United States. In such conditions,
risk-free assets are usually sold off. It is possible to discuss
excessively inflated speculative shorts for a long time, as well as the
fact that in March the forecasts for US GDP looked too optimistic
against the background of the uncertainty that persists around COVID-19.
More important for us is what will happen to bond yields in the future.

According to Goldman Sachs, BofA Global Research, and BlackRock, 10-year
Treasury rates will rise to 2% by the end of 2021 amid strong consumer
activity, tightening labor market conditions, and the impact of fiscal
stimulus. In contrast, HSBC believes that yields will remain at current
levels as inflation is driven by temporary supply problems. They will be
eliminated and the US economy will slow down. The first scenario is
disastrous for USDJPY bears. In the second case, the yen will continue
to resist the greenback.

### Dynamics of [USDJPY][1] and 10-year US and Japanese bonds' yield
spread

 __

_Source: Investing, LiteForex calculations._

Interest rate environments in the debt market are extremely important
for big [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s. In particular, GPIF managed to grow its assets to a
record ¥191.6 trillion due to an increase in income from investments in
foreign stocks and bonds by 8.6% and 1.9%. The return on local similar
securities was 0.3% and 0.9%, respectively.

Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga decided to win the election by
revising the basket of consumer prices, as a result of which core
inflation fell by 0.5% in June after rising by 0.2% in May. This will
seriously complicate the BoJ's task to overcome deflation and keep its
monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) ultra-soft for a very long time. This is also a bearish
factor for the yen.

Investors may wonder why, amid growing concern about the Delta, oil is
falling, but such reliable assets as Treasuries and the yen are being
sold? In my opinion, the answer is simple, when the US economy grows
faster than the world one, the dollar strengthens. This can be seen in
the dynamics of the USD index and [S&P 500][3]/[WTI][4] ratio.

### Dynamics of the US dollar and the [S&P 500][3]/[WTI][4] ratio



 _Source: Investing, LiteForex calculations._

### Monthly [USDJPY][1] trading plan

In my opinion, level 110.9 serves as the limit for [USDJPY][1]. In the
case of overcoming the beforementioned level, the pair can reach
unprecedented heights. An unsuccessful breakout will lead to a medium-
term consolidation in the 108.8-110.9 range. In this regard, hold the
[previously][2] formed longs, and when approaching an important level,
partially exit longs, on the contrary, add up to them depending on the
closing of the test bar.



## Price chart of USDJPY in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDJPY&returnUrl=true
   2. lite.forex/blog/analysts-opinions/yen-takes-delta-as-ally-forecast-as-of-05082021/
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USCRUDE&returnUrl=true