+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-10"
description = "US dollar price forecast 10 August 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 10 August 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-08-10

2021-08-10

Dollar: from irony to sarcasm. Forecast as of 10.08.2021Dmitri Demidenko

If in the first half of the year the greenback watched with irony the
attempts of [EURUSD][1] bulls to break out to level 1.25, then after the
June Fed meeting its smile looks sarcastic. Resistance is useless, it's
time for opponents to surrender! Let us discuss the Forex outlook and
make up a trading plan.

## Monthly US dollar fundamental forecast

Economic cycles tend to repeat, but how different recessions and
recoveries can be! In 2000-2018, the number of unemployed exceeded the
number of vacancies, now the opposite is true. In 2013, when the topic
of QE tapering was first raised, Treasury yields began to grow at a
tremendous pace, in 2021 rates during its rally turned out to be
unprofitable. In 2015, as the Fed tightened monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), the
derivatives market signaled that the rate would rise faster than FOMC
officials said. In August, despite the statements of the central bank's
hawks, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are in no hurry to abandon the idea of ​​increasing
borrowing costs in 2023. All the more surprising is the fact that the
dollar smile theory works!

During a recession, the greenback smiles. It grows as a safe-haven
currency, then falls due to massive monetary stimulus from the Fed, and
a little later strengthens again, as the US economy begins to outpace
the world. An important factor is the Fed's reaction to economy's
dynamics. Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan said that it will take
eight months to taper QE. The head of the Atlanta Fed, Rafael Bostic,
argues that the process of withdrawing monetary stimulus could go
faster, and the rate should be raised in 2022. Boston Fed boss, Eric
Rosengren, believes that the central bank must announce a $120 billion
program cut in September.

Based on all of the above facts, the slowness of the derivatives market
looks surprising. EURUSD futures continue to signal that the first act
of monetary restriction will take place in 2023, and CME derivatives
only give a 65% chance of a Fed rate hike in 2022.

### Dynamics of the probability of the Fed rate change in 2022



 _Source: CME Group._

It should be noted that before the release of the July US employment
data, the odds were fifty-fifty. Their growth is the key to further US
dollar strengthening.

Until recently, the yield on Treasury bonds created problems for the
greenback. However, the Treasury yield's 5-day rally contributed to the
fall of EURUSD price to a 4-month low. In early 2021 there was a lot of
talk about a repeat of the 2013 taper tantrum. Treasuries were selling
out on expectations of the Fed's signals about QE tapering, however,
widening of shorts to multi-year highs created problems for traders, as
a result of which increased demand for bonds led to losses. And only now
there are adequate conditions for a rally in debt yields: the Fed is
hawkish and there are doubts that high inflation will be temporary.

The release of US consumer price data for July could trigger an increase
in Treasury rates and raise the likelihood that the first act of the
Fed's monetary restriction will take place in 2022. Despite the fact
that Bloomberg experts expect a slowdown in CPI from 5.4% to 5.3%,
inflation will continue to rise, which indicates that its target has
been fulfilled, according to a number of FOMC members.

### Monthly [EURUSD][2] trading plan

The dollar smile theory, belief in treasury yields growth, and the Fed
rate hike in 2022 allow me to be confident in [EURUSD][1] shorts entered
at levels [1.1915][3] and [1.188][4]. The pair is confidently moving
towards the targets at 1.1715, 1.166, and 1.158. Use corrections to
enter sales.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. lite.forex/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-nothing-lasts-longer-than-the-temporary-forecast-as-of-28062021/
   4. lite.forex/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-doesnt-take-words-forecast-as-of-30072021/