+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-18"
description = "Forecast for the pound's price for 18 November 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for the pound's price for 18 November 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-18

2020-11-18

Pound threw the stick away. Analysis as of 18.11.2020Dmitri Demidenko

What will happen first: a UK-EU deal or the [S&P 500's][1] pullback? How
will it affect the [GBPUSD][2]? Let's discuss that and make a trading
plan.

## Weekly fundamental forecast for pound sterling

Playing good cop/bad cop can sometimes be efficient not only in
interrogation but also in negotiation. The difference is that one of the
cops has to quit in the end. Dominic Cummings, the mastermind of Brexit
and Boris Johnson's adviser, resigned while David Frost, a supporter of
"carrot" policies, stays. It gives [GBPUSD][2] bulls even more clues
than comments on the negotiations themselves. The pound soared to the
top of figure 32 against the USD, hoping that the long-awaited deal
would be finally made. It won't probably stop.

David Frost said long before the 2016 referendum that both parties would
have to make an effort to sign a deal, but Great Britain would have to
yield in the end. His comments look like a prophecy now. According to
Bloomberg's experts, the basic scenario is a Brexit that implies a deal
between London and Brussels. If this scenario is realized, the
[GBPUSD][2] quotes will have risen to 1.35 by mid-2021. If the
negotiations fail, they will drop to 1.25.

### Forecasts for pound



 _Source: Bloomberg._

Having faced the deepest recession among the G7 countries, Britain's
weak economy will hardly survive additional tariffs and quotas. The Bank
of England will have to introduce negative rates. At the same time, the
pound's bearish forecast of $1.25 looks better than in June ($1.18) or
in August ($1.1). The USD's downbeat prospects must have been factored
in the estimates.

Both parties should make an effort to reach a result. The [S&P 500's][1]
historic highs, which indicate a high-risk appetite, put pressure on
safe-haven assets and push the [GBPUSD][2] upwards as efficiently as
expectations of a Brexit deal. However, the higher the stock index
rises, the more its rally reminds of a bubble. The US economy is hardly
alive, corporate profits leave much to be desired, the epidemiological
situation worsens, and vaccination is still far away.

### Weekly trading plan for [GBPUSD][2]

The question is what will happen first: a UK-EU deal or the [S&P
500's][1] pullback? According to the Sun's insiders, a breakthrough in
Brexit talks should be expected on 23-24 November. Will the stock index
hold on to the current levels for the next few days? If it does, the
[GBPUSD][2] will manage to reach the [previous target of 1.34][3]. If
not, the coming week will be a roller-coaster ride, and the pair will
tend to consolidate in the range of 1.312-1.338.

What's more, a deal between Great Britain and the EU isn't a 100%
guarantee of the pound's further consolidation. The British economy is
vulnerable, and London will have to weaken the national currency to
finance double deficit. In December, selling the pound in a bullish
market can become as relevant as buying it in a bearish market in
October-November.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/pound-is-a-tough-nut-to-crack-forecast-for-gbpusd-as-of-11112020/
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-threw-the-stick-away-analysis-as-of-18112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-threw-the-stick-away-analysis-as-of-18112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus