+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-17"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (17 November 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (17 November 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-17

2020-11-17

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 17.11.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

It is relevant to sell oil in the short-term downtrend.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

It is clear from the medium-term oil price chart that oil is trading in
the middle-term uptrend with the target at Target Zone 2 [44.22 –
43.71].

I recommend entering purchases in the strong support zones, which are
the broken-out Target Zone [39.12 – 38.61] and the trend border [38.24 —
37.77].

The oil short-term trend is down. Oil price was being corrected up and
testing Additional Zone [41.32 – 41.20] yesterday. The price didn’t
consolidate above the resistance. The US session closed the price within
the zone.

It is relevant to enter sell trades today. We have two [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) now:

  1. Sell when the price goes back under Additional Zone [41.32 - 41.20].
  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [42.63 - 42.39], if the correction continues.

The sell target is the lower Target Zone [38.24 - 37.77]. It will be
relevant to buy oil if the IZ is broken out.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [41.32 - 41.20]. TakeProfit: 40.05. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [42.63 - 42.39]. TakeProfit: 40.05. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold price is being corrected up in the middle-term downtrend. Good
prices to sell gold are in the zone of [1976.9 — 1965.4], which is far
from the current prices.

The gold short-term trend is down. The price is now being corrected up
getting close to the trend border [1913.6 – 1907.9]. Today, I suggest
expecting the resistance test and look for a sell pattern. The sell
target will be at the breakthrough of the last week’s low.

An alternative scenario to buy gold: the price breaks out Intermediary
Zone and closes above at the US session. If so, the short-term trend
will turn up, and the upside target will be in the upper Target Zone
[1976.9 — 1965.4].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1913.6 - 1907.9].
TakeProfit: 1850.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

EURUSD is running up in the middle-term uptrend. The upside target is
Target Zone 2 [1.2032 - 1.2012]. I recommend entering new purchases in
the trend key support [1.1688 — 1.1665].

The EURUSD approached the border of the short-term downtrend [1.1873 –
1.1861] and tested the zone yesterday. Starting from today, we should be
looking for a sell pattern to enter short trades with the target at the
low of November 11 + Target Zone [1.1688 – 1.1665].

An alternative scenario suggests buying the euro. It will be relevant
when the price breaks out Intermediary Zone and closes above at the US
session. If so, the short-term trend will turn up, and the buy target
will be the upper Target Zone [1.2000 — 1.1977].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1873 - 1.1861].
TakeProfit: 1.1747, Target Zone [1.1688 - 1.1665]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-17112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-17112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus