+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-29"
description = "US dollar price forecast 29 April 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 29 April 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-29

2021-04-29

Forex in May: will US dollar break trend? Forecast for EURUSD, GBPCHF,
AUDJPY and USDSEK as of 29.04.2021Dmitri Demidenko

If in March greenback dominated Forex, in April it is certainly the
underdog of the international currency market. The seasonal factor
suggests that in May the situation may change dramatically again. Let's
discuss the market outlook and make up a trading plan for [EURUSD][1],
[GBPCHF][2], [AUDJPY][3], and [USDSEK][4]

## Monthly G10 currencies fundamental forecast

It seems like magic how statistical analysis with fundamental components
regularly generates profits. [In April][5], it has been profitable to
sell oil-exporting countries' currencies: [USDNOK][6] sales yielded
4.2%, [USDCAD][7] - 2.7%. The Swedish krona also yielded 4.5% against
the US dollar. The pound's results were mixed, 1.6% yield on [GBPUSD][8]
purchases was surpassed by losses on [GBPCHF][2] longs (1.7%) and
[EURGBP][9] shorts (1.8%). Taking into account the loss from
[EURCAD][10] sales in the amount of 0.7%, the portfolio grew by 4.3% in
April.

It would be very presumptuous to expect that a strategy based on
seasonal patterns will continue to do our job for us. A successful
period can be followed by a failure. Every trader knows this.
Nevertheless, it is extremely interesting to know how the G10 currencies
will be doing in May. Statistics show that the dollar pairs trend may
change again, for the second time in the last three months.

The top performers of May between 1975 and 2020 were the Swiss franc,
the US dollar, and the Japanese yen. For example, the [EURUSD][1] pair
from 2010 to 2019 closed May in the red zone in nine cases out of ten.
Last year, the euro rose by 1.5% against the greenback, thanks to the
recovery of US stock indices.

### Rise-fall periods

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex calculations._

In May, European currencies are usually outsiders, with the exception of
the CHF. This is confirmed by the averages and medians. I believe that
only due to the situation in the oil market, the Norwegian krone
regularly bypassed SEK, euro, and sterling, which is confirmed by the
Canadian dollar's dynamics.

### Averages and medians

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex calculations._

During the worst times, the euro sank by an average of 2.9%, the pound -
by 2.2%, the Swedish krona - by 2.9%. In contrast, the franc rose by 2%
and the yen by 2.4%.

### Price dynamics during rise-fall periods

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex calculations._

All of you are well aware of my bullish euro views, so it is difficult
for me to accept that, according to statistical analysis, [EURUSD][1] is
likely to fall in May. Taking into account the seasonal factor, it can
be assumed that EURUSD corrections at the end of spring are at risk of
becoming very deep. What is the reason? Most likely, this was influenced
by the growth of Treasury yields and the fall of US stock indices.

According to FactSet, at the beginning of the last week of April, 30% of
[S&P 500][11] companies reported their first quarter. 88% of them had
financial results that exceeded analysts' expectations, but only 57% of
shares rose. Strong corporate reporting postpones stocks' correction,
but if debt rates rise, the [S&P 500][11] will fall, which will
positively impact safe-haven assets. Based on this, it is possible to
enter short-term [EURUSD][1], [GBPCHF][2] and [AUDJPY][3] sell trades,
as well as buy [USDSEK][4]. However, I doubt that the medium-term trends
of the abovementioned pairs will be broken. Most likely, corrections
will allow buying attractive currencies at a lower price.









## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPCHF&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDJPY&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDSEK&returnUrl=true
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/forex-in-april-us-dollar-weakens-forecast-for-usdcad-eurcad-usdnok-usdsek-gbpusd-gbpchf-and-eurgbp-as-of-31032021/
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDNOK&returnUrl=true
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCAD&returnUrl=true
   8. my.lite.forex/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   9. my.lite.forex/trading/chart?symbol=EURGBP&returnUrl=true
   10. my.lite.forex/trading/chart?symbol=EURCAD&returnUrl=true
   11. my.lite.forex/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true