+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-24"
description = "Forecast for GBP/USD for 24 June 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for GBP/USD for 24 June 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 24, 2020

June 24, 2020

Pound outsmarted banksDmitri Demidenko

##  **GBP/USD’s rally may look paradoxical, but in fact it doesn’t.**

When something looks paradoxical, it means you aren’t aware of all the
details. BofA Merrill Lynch asserts that the pound’s fluctuations at
Forex are neurotic at best and incomprehensible at worst. The pound has
been requalified as the developing market’s currency once and for all.
Brexit made it a mirror of Great Britain’s small and shrinking economy.
In fact, [GBP/USD][1] can’t be growing for many reasons: London and
Brussels’ talks about Brexit ended in deadlock; the British GDP lost 20%
in April; the government debt exceeded the size of the UK economy in May
for the first time since 1963 and unemployment benefits jumped to almost
3 million. May BofA Merrill Lynch be unaware of those reasons?

The pound was called “the Great British Peso” (GDP) long ago: it’s more
volatile than other G10 currencies while reversal risks are growing as
the demand for high-yield assets is improving. Such factors as the UK
weak economy, tense political landscape and Bank of England’s ultra-soft
monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) are often ignored, though. At June’s meeting the BoE
increased QE by £100 billion, which will lead to a further balance
growth. The balance sheet grew to almost £700 billion. Andrew Bailey
asserts the government would have had to finance itself if the BoE
hadn’t stepped in in March. Bank of England Governor thinks that the
REPO rate will be raised before the balance starts shrinking.

 **BoE’s balance dynamics**

![LiteForex: Forecast for GBP/USD for 24 June 2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Though the BoE’s monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) has remained ultra-soft, the forward
market indicated a rate drop below zero and further QE expansion not
long ago. Investors believe it will happen if the UK economy continues
worsening, but inversely, it is growing better. The fastest ever growth
of business activity in the manufacturing sector in May suggests a
V-shape recovery of GDP. The indicator may return to the trend much
earlier than expected.

 **Great Britain’s GDP dynamics**

![LiteForex: Forecast for GBP/USD for 24 June 2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

As for Brexit, nothing is lost for the pound. The markets are tired of
uncertainty. The parties won’t prolong the transition period and are
ready to settle the issue before autumn so that the parliaments have
time to ratify the agreement. It’s a bullish factor for [GBP/USD][1].
London will be allowed to depart from the EU principles, but it will pay
for that through import taxes.

BofA Merrill Lynch’s mistake lies in paying too much attention to Great
Britain’s domestic data while the USD’s share in global conversion
operations indicates the importance of an external background. I mean a
global risk appetite and demand for safe haven assets in the first
place. If you trade macrostatistics, your choice is [EUR/GBP][4].
[GBP/USD][1] will continue going north as the world’s epidemiological
state improves. [Long positions formed from 1.2345][5] should be moved
to a breakeven level and built up at the resistance breakout at 1.255.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

![Pound outsmarted banks][8]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/balabce-boe-24-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=566ac437bd30e693dfb70d1d02801e5a
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/uk-economy-24-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=84fb4f923c16d8ca8dae7013e7eeb1e7
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURGBP&returnUrl=true
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/pound-is-playing-with-the-shadows/
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-outsmarted-banks&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-outsmarted-banks&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-gbpusd-24-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=75f32265908ddeae2bcc1a73b39e4f79