+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-07"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (7 October 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (7 October 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-07

2020-10-07

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 07.10.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The EURUSD didn’t test the key resistance of the medium-term downtrend
[1.1832 – 1.1812] yesterday. The correction continues.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

After the key support of the middle-term uptrend [37.34 - 36.72] was
tested, the price has started rising. Expect a buy pattern and enter
purchases. The upside target will be at the high of September 18, and
next, at the high of August 18.

An alternative scenario suggests the price break out the key support and
consolidate below. If so, the price will drop to Target Zone 2 [31.14 —
30.52].

The short-term oil trend has turned up, as the price broke out the key
resistance [39.53 – 39.26] and the US session closed the price above.
The previous scenario to sell didn’t work out. It is relevant to buy
with the target in the upper Target Zone [42.56 – 42.01].

Enter purchases on the correction today in the strong resistance zones,
Additional Zone [39.38 - 39.24] and Intermediary Zone [38.00 – 37.73].

It is not relevant to sell oil.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [39.38 - 39.24]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [42.56 - 42.01]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [38.00 - 37.73]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [42.56 - 42.01]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold traders yesterday reacted to the test of the strong resistance zone
of [1922.4 – 1913.1]. Hold middle-term sell trades down to the target in
Target Zone 2 [1829.4 – 1820.1]. The medium-term gold trend is down.

In the short-term chart, the price is being corrected down in the short-
term uptrend. Yesterday, the price broke out Additional Zone [1894.6 –
1892.0]. The price should test Intermediary Zone [1868.3 – 1863.1] today
or tomorrow.

Intermediary Zone is the trend border. If it is broken out, the trend
will turn down, and we shall enter short-term sell trades with the
target in the lower Target Zone [1815.8 — 1805.3].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Hold down medium-term sell trades entered in the zone of [1922.4 -
1913.1]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [1829.4 - 1820.1]. StopLoss: 1935.0.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD didn’t test the key resistance of the medium-term downtrend
[1.1832 – 1.1812] yesterday. The correction continues. After the test, I
recommend entering sell trades according to the pattern.

The euro local trend is up. The upside target is the upper Target Zone
[1.1832 - 1.1812].

Yesterday, the price was corrected down to the zone of good buy prices
[1.1757 – 1.1697]. To detail the entry point within the zone, we can use
the trendline and the mirror level drawn from the 1-2-3 pattern.

I recommend buying the euro today. One could buy at the current prices.
Set the take profit in the green zone, stop loss is below the trend
line, as a sufficient distance.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy at the current prices. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1832 - 1.1812].
StopLoss: 1.1714.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-07102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-07102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus