+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-07"
description = "US dollar price forecast October 7 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast October 7 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-07

2020-10-07

Dollar won’t give the money! Forecast 07.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The illness and the recovery of Donald Trump, his willingness to stop
coronavirus stimulus negotiations with Democrats shake the markets and
support the greenback; how long will it last? Let us discuss the forex
trends and make up the [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

##  **Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast**

There is no money, but you should hold up! Donald Trump says he will end
coronavirus stimulus talks with Democrats, accusing House Speaker Nancy
Pelosi of failing the negotiations. The US president says the aid will
be provided immediately after he wins the election on November 3.
Investors do not believe. Americans will receive the money only in
January or February, which will deprive the unemployed and small
businesses of support for 4-5 months and significantly slows down the US
economic recovery. Investors' concerns about such a scenario sent the US
stock indexes down, and the greenback has strengthened.

Trump appeared to contradict his earlier message. The US president
announced the end of the negotiations after  Jerome Powell calling for
more fiscal stimulus and saying Congress has a low risk of “overdoing
it, while a lack of sustained support from the federal government could
“lead to a weak recovery, creating unnecessary hardship for households
and businesses.” Of course, the US president does not have to obey the
Fed, but the fourth quarter's continuous GDP growth could have supported
Trump. After all, he promised a permanent 3% growth in 2016.

Nancy Pelosi claims that chaos reigns in the White House, and Donald
Trump should get tested for the effects of steroids, which he took in
the clinic on the brain. After all, Americans have lived with a bizarre
president for almost four years; they should have used to it. Trump
claims the fiscal stimulus will be delivered after his victory in the
election. Confidence is good; however, the approval ratings suggest the
opposite. Furthermore, does it make sense to vote for the president who
fails to fulfill his promises? It is not only about 3% of GDP growth. In
2016, Trump claimed he would reduce the US foreign trade deficit, but
August's deficit rose to $67 billion, the highest level in the last 14
years.

###  **Dynamics of USD and US trade balance**



 _Source_ _: Trading Economics_

Donald Trump is the source of uncertainty, which strengthens the US
dollar. Besides, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are not sure that Trump’s victory will result
in the [S&P 500][2] rally. On the contrary, bulls are now betting on Joe
Biden. If Biden becomes the president, the US government will be more
likely to provide the additional fiscal stimulus. In this case, the
global risk appetite will increase, and [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s will be selling off
the greenback.

Will it support the [EURUSD][1] uptrend? Just a few weeks ago, I was
sure it would. However, the second pandemic wave in the euro area makes
its adjustments. According to Christine Lagarde, France's and Spain's
GDPs won’t go back to the pre-crisis levels before 2022, which forces
the central bank to use stimulus longer than expected. In case of
necessity, the ECB will expand monetary stimulus, including further
interest-rate cuts into the negative area.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

The [EURUSD][1] failed to break out level 1.18, which suggests their
weakness. The bet on [sell trades][3] in the short run is working out,
as well as the [forecast][4] for the pair consolidation in the range of
1.161-1.177. I still recommend selling the euro on the price rise and
buying on the fall to the lower border of the consolidation range.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-enjoys-uncertainty-forecast-as-of-05102020/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-goes-up-amid-the-troubles-forecast-as-of-30092020/
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-wont-give-the-money-forecast-07102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-wont-give-the-money-forecast-07102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus