+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-15"
description = "New Zealand dollar price forecast 15 November 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "New Zealand dollar price forecast 15 November 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-15

2020-12-15

Kiwi is following the yuan up. Forecast as of 15.12.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The New Zealand dollar could be the best performer among G 10 currencies
in 2020. There several reasons, such as the support by China and the
commodity market, the success of the New Zealand economy, and medicine.
What will change in 2021? Let us discuss the NZD outlook and make up an
[NZDUSD][1] trading plan.

## Monthly fundamental forecast for New Zealand dollar

If the Chinese yuan can grow against the dollar up to the highest level
since 1993, why not the New Zealand dollar continues the rally versus a
basket of world major currencies? The trading idea suggested in the
[mid-November ][2]to buy the [NZDUSD][1] with the targets at 0.705 and
0.72. However, some [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s may think the uptrend is exhausting. May
the New Zealand GDP report for Q3 convince them otherwise?

According to Citigroup, the high demand for the yuan-backed assets will
be supporting the yuan during the entire year of 2021. As a result, the
[USDCNH][3] pair should be down below 6. That was the level last seen 27
years ago. What is good for the renminbi is good for the kiwi. About 30%
of New Zealand exports go to China, so the Chinese economy's growth is a
positive factor for Wellington. That is why the kiwi and the yuan are
positively correlated.

### Dynamics of NZDUSD and USDCNY

 _Source_ _: Trading Economics_

Beijing managed to defeat COVID-19. Furthermore, China’s manufacturing
increased by 7%, retail sales – by 5% in November, and the fixed-asset
investment went up 2.6% in the first eleven months of the year.
Therefore, the OECD forecast suggesting China’s economy's growth by
almost 10% in 2021 compared to the fourth quarter of 2019 is likely to
come true.

Wellington also managed to deal with the pandemic effectively. Besides,
there is a tailwind from China and the commodity market, as well as a
lower chance of the interest-rate cut by the Reserve Bank of New
Zealand, which lays a strong foundation for the [NZDUSD][1] uptrend. Six
weeks ago, financial markets were fully confident that the cash rate
would drop to -0.25% in 2021. Currently, the chances of such a scenario
are estimated at 30%. The sharp rise in property prices could be the
reason. The money has never been as cheap as now, and the housing prices
soared. That is why New Zealand's prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, asked
the RBNZ to take some measures to prevent growing social inequality
among the people in New Zealand.

###  **Dynamics of commodities**

 _Source_ _: Financial Times._

The NZD could follow the AUD trend, which soared after the report on the
Australian GDP for Q3. Bloomberg experts suggest the New Zealand economy
should expand by 12.9% in the July-September period, following the drop
by 12.2% in the April-June period. Better than expected data could give
a new momentum to the [NZDUSD][1] uptrend. After all, I believe the kiwi
price is quite a dependant on the foreign environment. Therefore, a
decline in the global risk appetite could result in a short-term
correction, while the medium- and long-term NZD outlook remains bullish.

### Monthly [NZDUSD][4] trading plan

Before Christmas, there will be uncertainty in the financial markets
because of Brexit, adopting the fresh fiscal stimulus by the US
Congress, and a potential trade war between China and Australia.
Therefore, the US stock indexes, as well as the commodities, could be
corrected down, pressing the [NZDUSD][4] also down. That is good!
Traders will have a chance to buy the pair at a lower price and set the
targets at 0.72 and 0.73-0.735.



The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NZDUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/five-reasons-to-buy-kiwi-forecast-as-of-12112020/
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCNH&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/ru/trading/chart?symbol=NZDUSD&returnUrl=true