+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-15"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (15 December 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (15 December 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-15

2020-12-15

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 15.12.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

Gold is rising from the key support of the short-term uptrend

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The medium-term oil uptrend continues. The trend target is Target Zone 3
[49.62 - 49.11]. Enter purchases on the correction at the trendline,
marked with pink in the chart.

The short-term oil trend is up. Yesterday, traders were testing
Additional Zone [46.65 – 46.53], where I recommended to buy oil and move
the purchases to the breakeven after the test of Gold Zone [47.64 –
47.41].

After Gold Zone test, the price was corrected down and broke through the
local low. Besides, yesterday, the price tested the broken-out
trendline, which was a resistance level and is now the strong support
for the price. The trendline is marked with green in the chart.

The price rolled up from the support back to Additional Zone [46.65 -
46.53], there is now forming an accumulation zone. As the oil uptrend
continues, I recommend entering purchases according to the pattern. The
upside target will be the high of last week.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [46.65 - 46.53].
TakeProfit: 47.82, Target Zone 2 [50.26 - 49.78]. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold is trading in the medium-term downtrend. The price is under the
resistance zone [1850 – 1890]. We continue expecting the pattern to
enter gold middle-term sell trades. The target will be Target Zone
[1775.2 — 1765.2].

The local short-term trend is up. The upside target is to reach Target
Zone [1890.8 – 1879.3].

Last week and yesterday, on December 14, traders were testing the trend
key support [1825.2 - 1820.2]. Bears didn’t break out the zone.

The price is now rolling up from the support zone getting close to the
resistance Additional Zone [1845.9 - 1843.4]. If bulls consolidate the
price above the resistance, there will be a buy pattern. In this case, I
will recommend entering a long trade according to the pattern.

Alternative scenario. The price doesn’t break out Additional Zone, goes
down, and breaks out Intermediary Zone. In this case, the short-term
trend will turn down, and we shall sell gold down to the lower Target
Zone [1775.2 — 1765.2].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1825.2 - 1820.2].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1890.8 - 1879.3]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro hit the high of early December yesterday. The medium-term
EURUSD trend is up.

The trendline, which is a support level, was rearranged. For today, I
recommend looking for a Price Action pattern to buy at the trendline. Or
you can expect the trendline breakout and sell the euro in the
correction.

In the short-term timeframe, the EURUSD is trading in the short-term
uptrend. The target is Target Zone 2 [1.2232 - 1.2209]. The price has
now stopped in the local resistance zone [1.2160 – 1.2151].

To enter a long trade, we need a Price Action buy pattern at the
trendline. The pattern isn’t yet there, so the price could break out the
support level and go down to Intermediary Zone [1.2085 — 1.2076] in the
correction.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy at the trendline according to the pattern. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [1.2232 - 1.2209]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. If the price breaks out the trendline downside, sell. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1.2085 - 1.2076]. StopLoss: above the local high.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-15122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-15122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus