+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-10"
description = "Canadian dollar price forecast 10 March 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Canadian dollar price forecast 10 March 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-10

2021-03-10

Bank of Canada takes an early start. Forecast as of 10.03.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

The rapid growth of oil and the US economy's recovery encourage
[USDCAD][1] and [EURCAD][2] bears to go ahead. The BoC meeting and the
Canadian employment report could serve as signals for opening positions.
Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly Canadian dollar fundamental forecast

According to the OECD forecasts, the world economy is ready to grow by
5.6% in 2021. Which of the central banks of the world’s major economies
will be the first to normalize monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)? The answer to this
question is extremely important for financial markets because the
tapering of the QE program and the rates' increase will strengthen the
local currency. It becomes a Forex favorite, the fate of the trend
becomes clear, and traders have only one thing to do - to buy.

The US economy's strength and the Treasury yield rally suggest that the
Fed will be the first to start normalizing monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). Indeed,
according to research by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, if the
Fed had adhered to the old, classical inflation-targeting approach, the
federal funds rate in the first quarters of 2022 and 2023 would have
increased to 1.01% and 1.55%, respectively. The problem is that Jerome
Powell and his team decided to manage average inflation, that is,
tolerate its too high values. The Fed claims that it intends to remain
passive for a long time. In my opinion, in this case, we can trust the
US regulator.

The Bank of Canada, on the other hand, is faced with the problem of
excessive QE scales against the backdrop of a booming economy. In the
fourth quarter of 2020, Canada's GDP expanded by 9.6%, while the
Bloomberg experts forecast the growth of only 7.3% YoY. In 2021, experts
expect the economy to grow by 5.4%, which is higher than the BoC's
January estimate of 4%.

### Canada's GDP dynamics

 _Source: Bloomberg._

What's the reason for purchasing assets worth CA$4 billion a week having
such good GDP figures? The Bank of Canada's QE program is already
unprecedented among the G7 countries based on the scale of sovereign
debt markets, and then the economy is showing substantial growth. The
Bank of Canada is unwilling to continue bond purсhases at the same pace
amid a reduction in the issue scale. Is the BoC trying to taper QE so as
not to reduce its own exports? Canadian exports should experience
problems due to the strengthening of the CAD.

In fact, there is no problem. Since the beginning of the year, the oil
price has grown by 30%, while the CAD exchange rate has increased by
only 0.4% against the US dollar. Canada's GDP continues to grow due to
the oil market, which is on the rise thanks to the booming global demand
and OPEC+ reluctance to increase production, and due to the strength of
the US economy, which accounts for 76% of Canadian exports. At the same
time, the OECD believes that Ottawa will become the second-largest
beneficiary of Joe Biden's $1.9 trillion fiscal stimulus after
Washington due to close economic ties between the two North American
countries.

### The impact of fiscal stimulus on economies



 _Source: Financial Times._

### Weekly [USDCAD][1] and [EURCAD][2] trading plan

In my opinion, the Bank of Canada will decide on the QE tapering on
March 10. If it will not happen, then definitely in April. Strong
Canadian employment statistics in February will be an additional driver
for the decline of the [USDCAD][1] and [EURCAD][2] prices. I recommend
selling on the breakout of the supports at 1.2615 and 1.4985.



## Price chart of USDCAD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCAD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURCAD&returnUrl=true