+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-16"
description = "Oil as the main asset in the energy resource market"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Oil as the main asset in the energy resource market"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-16

2020-09-16

OPEC’s and BP’s reviews of the energy resource marketMikhail Hypov

This article will deal with the energy resource market in general, and
oil prices in particular. My current interest in black gold is due to
the OPEC’s oil market [report][1] published on 14th September, and BP’s
[energy outlook][2] 2020.

What are those reports about? How have they affected the current and
future oil markets? Is my [June’s long-term crude oil scenario][3] still
up to date? Let’s find out!

The article covers the following subjects:

## Impact of OPEC’s and BP’s reports

In the chart above we see that the reports didn’t have any negative
impact at the moment of publication. Neither did they provoke panics or
sales. I marked the period ranging from a few hours before and a few
hours after the publication with a red circle. The fall didn’t even
update the previous local low.

Panics didn’t affect British Petroleum’s stock chart either, but the
local low was updated.

The market impact on the stock quotes was rather positive and held the
collapse back. The S&P500 was growing on the reports publication.

I can conclude that these reports’ market effect is overrated, and
actually they didn’t play an important role. Another explanation could
be the fact that the reports’ main conclusions have already been
factored in the prices.

In the chart above, WTI oil prices and the S&P500 were falling at almost
the same time at the beginning of September. So what was the reason for
the markets’ decline? And what conclusions do these two reports contain?

## Contents of OPEC’s and BP’s reports

OPEC’s report didn’t have any surprises inside.

The post-crisis economic recovery period will take more than 1 year.  As
the table above suggests, the global economy will fall 4.1% in 2020. The
outlook for 2021 still looks optimistic. The global economy is expected
to grow 4.7%. China will be the main growth driver: its economy suffered
the least and kept its positive growth rates. India is the next driver
as its economic recovery tempo is expected to cover the damage.

The chart above shows that the 2021 general oil demand growth will be
6.6 million barrels a day, which is less than the 2020 demand slump.
Thus, OPEC doesn’t forecast an oil demand recovery next year.

Next, the OPEC experts downgraded the forecast for potential oil demand
by 0.4 million barrels a day. It happened following the US Energy
Information Administration’s 0.5 million bbl downgrade, so the [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/)
wasn’t a surprise.

OPEC’s main concern is the second coronavirus wave, forecasted from
September to December 2020, i.e. now. The second wave may be more
damaging to the main oil importing countries than expected. In the first
place I mean India, China and the Asian region. Analysts believe that
the weak low demand may continue in the first six months of 2021.

At the same time, experts singled out another factor that drops oil
prices: the growing production in the non-OPEC countries. The USA is
expected to be one of the leading producers, with the monthly output
rise of 0.12 million barrels.

Despite expectations, low oil prices didn’t fully destroy shale oil
production in the USA. The chart above shows that the number of drill
rigs plateaued out. So I can conclude that all costly projects have
already left the market, and only those are left who can afford to
survive amid the current oil prices. In future, these survivors may
increase oil output fast. British Petroleum provided a longer-term and
deeper analysis of the oil market and other energy resources, which you
can check out [here][2].

One of BP’s important conclusions is that global oil demand will never
recover to pre-crisis volumes.



British Petroleum’s report includes three scenarios.

  * Business-as-usual. Implies that the global policies concerning CO2 emissions and non-renewable energy resources remain unchanged, and the current ecological doctrines will be preserved.
  * Rapid. Implies a set of intergovernmental measures and political decisions aimed at reducing carbon emissions and combating global warming.
  * Net Zero. Under this scenario, the social behaviour changes in a way that helps preserve environment and is favourable to ecological materials and technologies.

As the chart above suggests, oil consumption is present in all three
scenarios up to 2050. However, BP is inclined to choose the Rapid or Net
Zero scenarios.

There are several reasons.

1\. Global warming



The heat map above shows that only northern countries, such as Canada or
Russia, may profit from climate change: glacier and permafrost melting
will give access to natural resources and make their production more
profitable. On the other hand, even those countries won’t escape such
negative consequences as coastal flooding and entire cities’
submergence.  The most of the world will be in a great crisis. As all
the economies are interdependent, everyone will lose, ultimately.

Bloomberg has conducted an [interesting research][4] into global
warming.  The interactive map from that research visualizes climate
changes in time. Warming by 3 degrees is considered to be critical. Not
only will it provoke disastrous floods, but also lead to soil erosion,
destruction of relict forests and extinction of animals and plants.

Thus, the society must be ready to assume radical measures to cut CO2
emissions and prevent their negative effects.

2\. Negative Covid effect

BP forecasts the coronavirus’ more serious damaging effect than OPEC
does. The chart above shows two scenarios in which global GDPs and
demand for traditional energy resources and fuel drop. Under the
negative scenario where the virus develops in a few waves, the fall
doubles. However, the oil demand will have fallen almost 3% by 2025
under the optimistic scenario too. The market’s structural changes
explain that effect: the pandemic has changed our lifestyles forever.
The remote services are being introduced faster. Business trips became
less necessary, while the current technologies allowed organising
workspace at home. Thus, the market fell in the areas that can’t be
transformed into online services. Transport services are especially
susceptible to such changes, and the approach to using individual
transport is changing too. People just don’t need to drive often now.
Ultimately, it will result in lower oil consumption.

3\. Lower cost of solar and wind energy



The chart above shows that these costs will be reducing no matter the
scenario. The year 2018 is taken as a reference price. By 2040, solar
energy costs will have reduced almost twice, while wind energy costs
will have dropped 20%.

Even under BP’s conservative scenario, the share of solar and wind
energy will exceed the share of coal or gas power plants. Thus, the
demand for hydrocarbon resources will be falling.

4\. Changes in transport infrastructure

According to BP’s modest estimations, electric vehicles will account for
almost 50% of all transport means. The share of individual cars will
drop, replaced by [robot](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/automated-forex-trading-robot/)axis and self-driving cars. Hybrid liquefied
hydrogen powered vehicles will be developing too. Thus, gas/oil powered
cars will become old-fashioned in 30 years, and oil consumption in the
transport sector will drop significantly.

That’s all for now. I’ll continue to analyse British Petroleum’s report
tomorrow. We’ll examine other interesting facts from that 80-page
report, analyse BP’s main investment recommendations and check how this
scenario will affect the oil price technically.

Bookmark this article not to miss the sequel!

Subscribe to my blog at [LiteForex][5] and keep in touch!

* * *

Good luck and profits, everyone!

Best regards,

Michael @Hypov

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. momr.opec.org/pdf-download/
   2. www.bp.com/content/dam/bp/business-sites/en/global/corporate/pdfs/energy-economics/energy-outlook/bp-energy-outlook-2020-presentation-slides.pdf
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/commodity-market-analysis-oil-forecast/
   4. www.bloomberg.com/graphics/2020-climate-heat-inequality/?srnd=graphics-v2
   5. liteforex.com/blog/?author=72
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=opecs-and-bps-reviews-of-the-energy-resource-market&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=opecs-and-bps-reviews-of-the-energy-resource-market&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus