+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-29"
description = "US dollar price forecast 29 June 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 29 June 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-29

2021-06-29

Dollar rules the market. Forecast as of 29.06.2021Dmitri Demidenko

When the Fed was passive, the euro was growing steadily. Once the US
central bank began taking active steps, the [EURUSD][1] bulls have been
exiting longs. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading
plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

The euro found some support amid the growth of global risk appetite and
the dispute between hawks and doves of the Governing Council, indicating
a split among the ECB members. However, the expectations of positive US
employment data sent the [EURUSD][2] down to the bottom of figure19. A
strong US employment report will boost the expectations of the federal
funds rate hike in 2022, strengthening the greenback.

Based on the classic rules of Forex pricing, the euro uptrend in April-
May could seem unnatural. The growth gap supported the US dollar, while
the monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) of both central banks remained ultra-easy. However,
because of its $6-trillion stimulus, the USA is now playing the same
role as China after the 2008 financial crisis. It is the driver of
global economic growth and demand for commodities and raw materials. For
the first time in at least half a century, the [S&P 500][3] and the
commodity market index S&P GSCI rose by 5% or more for five consecutive
quarters. In April-June, they added 8% and 13%, respectively.

Much has changed following the FOMC meeting in June. If central banks,
led by the Fed, cease providing monetary support in the same volume,
growth of stock and commodity markets will significantly slow down.
Moreover, the concerns about rate hikes and inflation, as well as fears
that the euro trend is at the peak and it is time to take profits, will
increase the risks of a drop in the [S&P 500][3] and S&P GSCI, which
will support the greenback.

What arguments do the euro bulls have? A split in the ECB? The fact that
Germany's Jens Weidmann and Austria's Robert Holzmann openly debate the
prospect of winding down its 1.85 trillion euro Pandemic Emergency
Purchase Programme (PEPP) in March 2022 as the economy improves? After
all, there are also doves in the Governing Council. Fabio Panetta sees
no justification for slowing the bond-buying program too early, as it
could result in the deterioration of financial conditions in the euro
area and new asset purchases. Furthermore, markets expect the Fed to
hike the interest rate much faster than the ECB. Given all this, could
the [EURUSD][2] uptrend recover?

###  **Dynamics of expectations of rate changes by Fed, BoE, and ECB**

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The FOMC members are debating whether to start by reducing purchases of
mortgage-backed securities to avoid adding more fuel to the housing
boom. Furthermore, some of the Federal Reserve officials suggest that
the rate should be raised in 2022. Conversely, the ECB hawks can only
dream about tapering the European QE. The divergence in monetary
policies has been supporting the [EURUSD][2] bears for a long time, and
a strong reading of the US employment data could send the euro deeper,
towards level $1.177

### Weekly [EURUSD][2] trading plan

According to Oxford Economics, this summer is strange. Some of the
obstacles to employment growth are disappearing, which could result in a
sharp employment rise. If this happens in June, traders will only regret
not opening [EURUSD][2] shorts before. After all, it is relevant to
enter shorts now when the price breaks out the support level of 1.19.







## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true