+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-02"
description = "Euro price forecast 2 December 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 2 December 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-02

2020-12-02

Euro takes a jump. Forecast as of 02.12.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The single European currency has satisfied the buyers amid the increase
in global risk appetite and resumed talks in Congress about new US
fiscal stimulus. Where will the EURUSD go? Let us discuss the Forex
outlook and make up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Monthly euro fundamental forecast

COVID-19 has become a disaster, but the development of vaccines inspires
hope for the better. The pandemic's economic fallout has turned out to
be not so horrible as it was expected just six months ago. Furthermore,
an adequate man has become the US president. Yes, there are still be
economic consequences of the pandemic, but the global economy can well
get over the crisis in a better state than many have worried about.
Investors have quite a number of reasons to be optimistic, and they are
hurrying up to buy. The [S&P 500][2] in 2020 breaks records for the 27th
time, the [Nasdaq Composite][3] – for 46th time. The [EURUSD][1],
closely related to the US stock indexes, has broken out level 1.2 at the
second attempt, hitting the highest level since May 2018.

The uncertainty resulted from the pandemic is so strong that the OECD
presented two forecasts in the summer. Neither of the forecasts was
preferable. The first one suggested a single shock from COVID-19; the
second implied double damage. In November, the global economic data
turned out to be stronger than both forecasts, which has supported the
increase in the global risk appetite.

### OECD forecasts



 _Source_ _: Financial Times_

According to the OECD gauge, many world economies won’t recover to the
pre-crisis levels in 2021. The introduction of the vaccines doesn’t mean
that everything will be fine in a month. Nonetheless, the economic
situation is improving, and it will be improving further. The forecast
for global GDP for next year was reduced from 5% to 4.2%, for the US
growth - from 4% to 3.2%, for the European - from 5.1% to 3.6%. The OECD
expects the US economy to recover by the end of 2021. The euro-area
outlook is worse. Only Germany is said to be able to get closer to the
pre-crisis level. Germany’s GDP is expected to be just 1.7% lower than
in the fourth quarter.

I don’t think such projections are the reason to sell the [EURUSD][1].
First, the lower are the forecasts, the easier it will be to surpass
them, as it was in the euro-area in 2017. Second, the OECD is quite
optimistic about China’s economic growth, which strongly impacts the
euro area. The Chinese GDP could expand by 10% in 2020-2021. And
finally, as [we have already discussed][4], the explosive growth of
industry and foreign demand supports the export-led countries and
regions. JP Morgan's Global Manufacturing PMI is currently one of the
best in a decade, and the IHS Markit Composite PMI is growing for the
seventh straight month.

### Dynamics of Manufacturing PMI



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The OECD projections fuel the fuss around purchasing the US stocks.
Besides,  the EU's chief medicines regulator says Pfizer’s partner,
BioNTech, and US drugmaker Moderna have applied for their vaccine
approval. Furthermore, the US Congress has resumed talks on the new
fiscal stimulus. The new proposal of the bipartisan group is $ 908
billion. Remember, earlier, the Democrats insisted on an amount of $ 2.4
trillion; the Republicans were ready to provide only $ 650 billion to
the economy.

### Monthly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Thus, my [forecast][5] suggesting the [EURUSD][1] trading range to move
from 1.16-1.2 to 1.18-1.22 comes true. The price has consolidated above
1.2 and is rising to the upper border of the trading channel. I
recommend buying the euro on the drawdowns.

[EURUSD][6] current rate in the Forex market:

EURUSD = 1.21051

1-day change

0.0039 (0.32%)

Open an account with a reliable broker and start earning money on an
easy-to-use platform in the global foreign exchange market.

[ Open account ][7]



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NQ&returnUrl=true
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/euro-looks-beyond-the-shock-forecast-as-of-30112020/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/euro-ignores-negative-forecast-as-of-23112020/
   6. my.lite.forex/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-takes-a-jump-forecast-as-of-02122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup