+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-02"
description = "Forecast for AUD price for 2 December 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for AUD price for 2 December 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-02

2020-12-02

The Aussie needs to pick its horse. Forecast as of 02.12.2020Dmitri
Demidenko

Australia has been riding two horses simultaneously for decades. Now
it's time to choose between America and China. How will that affect the
[AUDUSD][1]? Let's check and make a trading plan.

## Quarterly fundamental forecast for Australian dollar

If you make China your enemy, China will be your enemy. Beijing's anger
can't stop since Australia accused it of the coronavirus's alleged
origin from a laboratory. Not only did China introduce import taxes on
wine and other goods, but they also made so bold as to publish a
provocative picture depicting an Australian soldier with a knife next to
an Afghan child's throat. That outraged the whole Green continent, but
Canberra had to acknowledge it respected the Chinese people.

Australia has been riding two horses at a time for decades. It supported
a strategic military alliance with the USA and developed economic
relations with China. The 2018-2019 trade wars between Washington and
Beijing made Canberra make a choice. So, it stated that the origins of
COVID-19 must be investigated, and it signed a resolution on Hong Kong
with the USA, Great Britain, New Zealand, and Canada - the other four
members of the Five Eyes alliance. China was outraged: "No matter how
many 'eyes' you have, be careful not to be poked and get blind by
harming China's sovereignty, security and development interests!"

### Structure of Australian exports

###

 _Source: Trading Economics._

China's trade ministry has already targeted Australian barley, beef, and
seafood. The wine got on that list in November. Chinese producers
supposedly complained about foreign competitors that had increased
exports from 5.7 million litres in 2015 to 12.1 million litres in 2019.
As a result, Beijing introduced taxes, varying from 107% to 212%, and
thus caused Australia's exports damage worth AU$1.2 billion. It's
undoubtedly a drop in the ocean compared with the total trading volume
of AU$252 billion, but the [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are concerned that the conflict
won't stop. As a result, the Aussie isn't moving against the USD, in
contrast to other global currencies.

The Reserve Bank thinks that the AUD rate could be higher if not for its
titanic effort. Although using the Japanese experience of yield control,
cutting the cash rate to 0.1 and extending QE by AU$100 billion could
ruin any currency, the Aussie is still afloat.

### Dynamics of Australian bond yields

###

 _Source: Bloomberg._

If China hadn't created extra difficulties for the Australian dollar,
[AUDUSD][1] bulls would be more successful. Australia's economy pulled
itself out of recession in Q3, having grown 3.3%. According to RBA's
forecasts, GDP will grow in Q4 and increase by 5% in 2021. The question
of negative rates introduction isn't being considered, and the growth of
global risk appetite creates "a fair wind" for the commodity market and
currencies.

### Quarterly trading plan for the [AUDUSD][1]

I think Washington-Beijing better relations under Joe Biden might put
out the conflict between China and Australia and become an extra factor
in the [AUDUSD's][1] rise. For now, I'll keep my moderate [November's
forecast][2] of 0.75 and 0.78 by mid-February and mid-May. My advice is
to buy the pair in the falling market.

[AUDUSD][3] current rate in the Forex market:

AUDUSD = 0.74074

1-day change

0.00374 (0.51%)

Open an account with a reliable broker and start earning money on an
easy-to-use platform in the global foreign exchange market.

[ Open account ][4]



## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/china-targets-the-aussie-forecast-as-of-16112020/
   3. my.lite.forex/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=the-aussie-needs-to-pick-its-horse-forecast-as-of-02122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup