+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-02"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (2 December 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (2 December 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-02

2020-12-02

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 02.12.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The oil price is being corrected in the medium-term chart. The medium-
term oil trend is up.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The oil price is being corrected in the medium-term chart. The medium-
term oil trend is up. Enter purchases in the support zones [43.00 -
42.80], [41.32 — 40.85].

The short-term trend is up. The price has worked out the short-term
trading idea to sell oil in the zone of [45.00 – 45.70]. The price
reached Intermediary Zone [43.70 – 43.46].

Intermediary Zone is the trend key support of the short-term uptrend. I
recommend now entering buy trades in the zone according to the patterns.
The target is to break through the high of November 25 and reach Gold
Zone [47.38 — 47.14].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [43.70 - 43.46].
TakeProfit: 46.03, Gold Zone [47.38 - 47.14]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold price is being corrected up after it fell and broke out Target Zone
2 [1829.4 – 1820.1]. The medium-term downtrend continues. It is relevant
to sell at good prices.

Good prices to sell will be provided after the test of strong
resistances: [1861.0 - 1850.0] and [1890.8 – 1879.3]. I suggest
considering these two zones as a single resistance area. After the price
enters this area, one could enter sell trades according to the pattern.

The gold price is being corrected up in the short-term timeframe.
Yesterday, buyers broke out Additional Zone [1796.0 – 1793.0]. Today,
the price is running up towards Intermediary Zone [1827.5 – 1821.8].

After the test of Intermediary Zone, we shall watch the reaction of
sellers. We need a pattern to sell gold in the short-term downtrend.

If there is no pattern, and the price breaks out the resistance zone,
the short-term gold trend will turn up. If so, we shall enter short-term
buy trades with the target at the upper Target Zone [1890.8 — 1879.3].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1827.5 - 1821.8].
TakeProfit: 1765.0, Target Zone 2 [1735.4 - 1723.9]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD reached Target Zone 2 [1.2032 – 1.2012] yesterday. The US
session closed the price above the zone. One closing above zone is not
enough for the price consolidation, we should expect the second one.

If the US session closes above the zone today, the next upside target
will be Target Zone 3 [1.2232 — 1.2212].

The euro-dollar short-term uptrend continued yesterday. As a result, the
price broke out Target Zone [1.2000 - 1.1977]. The next upside target is
Gold Zone [1.2105 – 1.2093].

I recommend entering new purchases on the correction to the strong
support zones: Additional Zone [1.2031 - 1.2026] and Intermediary Zone
[1.1979 – 1.1969]. Enter new purchases only according to the pattern.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.2031 - 1.2026]. TakeProfit: Gold Zone [1.2105 - 1.2093]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1979 - 1.1969]. TakeProfit: Gold Zone [1.2105 - 1.2093]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-02122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-02122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus