+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-20"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 20, 2020

July 20, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.07.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil is trading in the middle-term uptrend. The price is now under the
under the strong resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. If it is
broken out, the next growth target will be Target Zone 6 [49.17 –
48.42].

Otherwise, the price will be corrected down to the trend key support
[33.64 — 32.86].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.07.2020][1]

The shorter timeframe indicates that oil is trading in the local
uptrend. Last week, buyers were again testing Target Zone 5 [41.67 –
40.92] trying to break through the high of June. They failed. We shall
see if they break through June’s high this week.

As for long trades in the trend, I recommend waiting until the price
breaks through TZ 5, or tests the trend key support and draws a buy
pattern.

One could consider sell trades after the price breaks through June’s
high and rolls down under the resistance TZ5.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.07.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today: **

If June’s high is broken through and the price rolls down under the
resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92], sell. TakeProfit: 36.92.
StopLoss: above the high of the false breakout pattern.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

We shall expect the gold price to break through the high of July and
then take the decision to buy or sell. To enter new purchases, the price
should be consolidated at above Target Zone 6 [1817.2 – 1811.2] at the
US sessions. It will be relevant to sell is there is a false breakout of
the high.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.07.2020][4]

In the short-term uptrend, the gold price is about to break out Gold
Zone [1812.5 – 1808.0]. According to technical analysis, the market is
trading flat in the short-term timeframe. In this situation, it is
recommended to enter trades at the borders of the trading range.

The buy target now is to break through July’s high. After the high is
updated, we shall see if buyers consolidate the price above level
1818.1. If they do, the next buy target will be Target Zone [1862.3 -
1853.7]. If they do not, we shall sell gold with the target at the trend
key support.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.07.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

Sell according to the pattern of the false breakout of July's high.
TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro to dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The EURUSD is breaking through the previous local high at 1.1424. If the
price is consolidated above the level, the next upside target will be
Target Zone 2 [1.1550 - 1.1532].

Expect until the price is corrected to the trend key support and draws a
buy pattern to enter new middle-term purchases.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.07.2020][7]

The EURUSD short-term trend is up. The euro bulls are trying to break
out Gold Zone [1.1467 - 1.1458]. If the US session closes the price
above the zone today, the next upside target will be Target Zone 2
[1.1567 – 1.1549].

I recommend entering new purchases on the corrections towards the strong
supports, The strong support zones are by far Additional Zone [1.1421 –
1.1417] and Intermediary Zone [1.1376 – 1.1367]. If the price breaks
through the local high today, we shall move the support zones along with
the price.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.07.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1421 - 1.1417]. TakeProfit: 1.1467. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1376 - 1.1367]. TakeProfit: 1.1467. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 20.07.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_200720_1.png?w=30&s=c60ea4336e2f0699b598cd4bce312559
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_200720_2.png?w=30&s=2acc4ea6b59c780619c3b6e97c151e3f
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_200720_1.png?w=30&s=d09c9f20d9ad7bbe2667a0745a89a226
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_200720_2.png?w=30&s=6a411a44ed92416a54632d40e8dee394
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_200720_1.png?w=30&s=62e87bec642b4331fd6ed11def70622e
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_200720_2.png?w=30&s=1a30c04533d82becdbe8d5cad095cc16
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-20072020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-20072020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_141.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=54bd1441a03b4e1852b02daa6acb1a2a