+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-20"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 20.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 20.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 20, 2020

July 20, 2020

EUR/USD forecast: Will Greed ruin the Euro?Dmitri Demidenko

##  **EUR/USD forecast: Will Greed ruin the Euro?**

###  **The EUR/USD may be corrected deeply because of €50 billion**

Europe can wait. Until Monday. The EU decision on €1.8-trillion stimulus
package is delayed. Because of €50 billion. That is the amount of the
fiscal stimulus that can be the reason for the euro fall and the turmoil
in the euro-area debt market. According to Citigroup, the progress in
the negotiations between the rich North and the poor South could reduce
the spread between Italian and German bonds by up to 10 basis points.
Any reduction in grants could widen it by 30 basis points. In the thin
summer market, where the trade volumes have down much, far stronger
moves are possible.

### Dynamics of bond trading volumes

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 20.07.2020][1]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The French-German emergency package provided for the attraction of
resources to fight the pandemic economic fallout as the bond issue by
the European Commission for €750 billion. €500 billion should have been
distributed for free, as grants.€250 billion should be repaid. In
addition to bonds, the stimulus package also includes an extra budget of
€1.1 trillion. The amount of grants has become the stumbling block
between the rich North and the poor South. The European Council
president Charles Michel offered to reduce the portion of the grant in
the package to €400 billion, which quite satisfied two of four
representatives of the Frugal Four, Denmark, and Sweden. However, the
two remaining countries, the Netherlands and Austria are willing to pay
no more than €350 billion.

The North is satisfied, bur the South is resenting. Italian Prime
Minister Giuseppe Conte said that Europe was "under the blackmail of the
frugals", and the important issue is being solved by the center as
usual. Paris, Berlin, Amsterdam, and Vienna will try to find a
compromise. The initial amount of the dispute was €150 billion, and it
has been reduced to €50 billion. This fact suggests hope that the EU
governments will reach an agreement, and the [ EUR/USD][2] will resume
rising. After all, if they fail to agree, there will be appointed the
date for the next extraordinary EU summit for further discussions. The
turmoil in the euro-area bond market and mass exiting the euro long
trades will result in the pair’s correction down.

Investors will immediately remember negative factors for the euro, which
they have been ignoring amid the EUR/USD rally in the May-July period.
One can insist on an investment idea if there are minor flaws. But, if
the drawbacks are getting stronger, the idea will ultimately fail. This
refers to both the US-EU trade relations and the euro-area labor market.

France and other EU countries still insist on the introduction of the
digital tax, which will hit the US companies first of all. The Austrian
court ruled that the European customer data could not be stored in the
US, which would cause serious problems for Facebook and other US
corporations. The EU may face a trade war with the US. Besides, the
exhaustion of the euro-area fiscal stimulus could push up the
unemployment rate in Europe, and so, slow down the euro-area GDP
recovery trend.

After all, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s now focus on the EU decision on the stimulus
package. If the EU governments reach a compromise, the[ EUR/USD][2] pair
can break out level 1.15 and go up. If they fail to agree, the pair
could roll down to 1.141and 1.1365-1.137.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![EUR/USD forecast: Will Greed ruin the Euro?][5]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/volume-bonds-20-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=af247392e63cf087783ac218de75617f
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-will-greed-ruin-the-euro&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-will-greed-ruin-the-euro&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-20-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=e2b32bf0066516f6ab906247dac9a114