+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-21"
description = "US dollar price forecast 21 October 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 21 October 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-10-21

2021-10-21

Dollar looks for a loophole. Forecast as of 21.10.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Temporary doesn’t mean short-term. If high inflation lasts longer than
the Fed expects, the interest rates will have to be raised in 2022.
However, this scenario is not primary. How will it affect the
[EURUSD][1]? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading
plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

[EURUSD][1] bulls are encouraged by several facts. The Bank of England
is ready to act, the US stock indexes are close to all-time highs, and
the FOMC hawks say it is too early to talk about a federal funds rate
hike. The euro bulls are fighting despite the energy crisis or the ECB's
unwillingness to quit its ultra-easy monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/).

The willingness of Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann to step down
should have encouraged the Governing Council’s doves. The hawkish German
central-bank chief is the outspoken critic of the ECB’s quantitative
easing programme, and his stepping down could have weakened the
positions of hawks. However, the hawks were in the minority before.
Furthermore, some analysts suggest that Christine Lagarde and her
colleagues could present a farewell gift to Weidmann by quitting the
PEPP at the last ECB meeting in 2022.

I don’t think that the change of the Bundesbank president will somehow
affect the balance of power within the Governing Council. Besides, the
[EURUSD][1] current growth results from a weaker US dollar rather than a
stronger euro. The euro area is considered to be the most affected by
the energy crisis, therefore, the EURUSD rally looks surprising in such
an environment.

### Losers and winners because of energy crisis



 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

The dollar is also pressed down by an increase in the global risk
appetite and surprisingly conservative tone of the FOMC hawks. For
example, Cleveland Fed Bank President Loretta Mester says the federal
funds rate hike is not a matter of the near future. First, the Fed
should finish the QE, and only after that, it will be relevant to
discuss an increase in borrowing costs. Federal Reserve Vice Chairman
for Supervision Randal Quarles claims that current high inflation is
“transitory”, but it could last for longer than expected. He warns that
if US inflation stays above 4% for a long time, the Fed will have to
hike the rates earlier. However, his primary scenario still suggests
that the rate of price increases should slow down in 2022.

Thus, the Fed is trying to secure a retreat path. If the version of the
inflation temporary nature is not confirmed next year, the Fed can well
tighten monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). In the meantime, it is best to proceed in
stages: when the QE is completed, the Fed could consider the rate hike.
The US central bank doesn’t appear to be willing to act more
aggressively, which encourages dollar bulls to exit trades, resulting in
a correction of dollar pairs.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

The situation is fuelled by strong corporate reporting. The [S&P 500][2]
rally is a reason to sell safe-havens. However, it doesn’t mean that the
[EURUSD][1] should be continuously rising, it is more likely to jump up
and down within the consolidation range. The correction up won’t
continue until the price breaks out the resistance 1.167 - 1.168. If the
price goes below the support 1.1615, the seller could go ahead.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true