+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-16"
description = ""Nuclear option" sanctions on Russia became a reality"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = ""Nuclear option" sanctions on Russia became a reality"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-16

2021-04-16

Dollar beats war drum. Review as of 16.04.2021Dmitri Demidenko

"Nuclear option" sanctions on Russia became a reality

## Unlike Trump, Biden chooses a weaker rival

> \- Hi there! Does your dog bite?

>

> \- I wonder that too because I've had him just for two days. Come in,
come in!

It's been a long time since the White House was rumored to bar U.S.
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s from buying Russian debt. Geopolitical risks were the main
factor in the rouble's 13% slump against its American counterpart last
year. It finally happened! Washington put a veto on buying Russian bonds
in the primary market. So, is it time to bury the rouble?

The [USDRUB][1]'s April journey was quite breathtaking. Quotes
skyrocketed twice on information about a Russian military buildup at the
Ukrainian border and Bloomberg's inside on "nuclear option" sanctions
from the White House. Then, they fell twice after Joe Biden proposed
meeting with Putin in a phone conversation and after the veto on
accessing the Russian debt primary market was imposed. The Russians,
meanwhile, liked the rouble's reaction to the Biden-Putin phone call so
much that they asked Joe Biden to phone their president more often.

It's too early to bury the [USDRUB][1] bears, though. The devil you know
is better than uncertainty. Even if U.S. residents are no longer allowed
to participate in the primary market for new debt issued by the Russian
central bank, Finance Ministry, and sovereign wealth fund, they still
can access the secondary market. What's more, when slaves refuse to
leave the galleys, it means they have something to fight for there. And
they will find a way to return even if they may need third-party
support. There must be a reason why foreign consultants advise their
clients to invest in Russian securities, considering Russia's current
account surplus, Bank of Russia's reserves, and the oil market's solid
positions. Now add there an attractive yield on government bonds.

The wind of change is rarely favorable. Unlike Donald Trump, who
preferred the strongest rival, Joe Biden starts with the one whose
economy is weaker. The White House seems to be forcing its way through,
making us recall the Cold War era.

We can't say the USA is beating the war drum to drown empty stomachs.
The U.S. economy is ready for an economic boom none of the living
Americans has ever seen. The White House believes "nuclear option"
sanctions are an adequate response to the Russian misconduct and does
not see them as a step to an escalation of the conflict with Moscow. Joe
Biden asserts he could have done more, suggesting that the secondary
Russian debt market could have been affected too. In the meanwhile, the
rouble is growing. The [USDRUB][1] is no longer being bought on rumors.
Is it time to sell it on facts?







## Price chart of USDRUB in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDRUB&returnUrl=true