+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-16"
description = "US dollar price forecast 16 April 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 16 April 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-16

2021-04-16

Dollar is covering the tracks. Forecast as of 16.04.2021Dmitri Demidenko

When the world economy is about to rebound, the [EURUSD][1] should not
fall in response to the US strong domestic data. However, the euro
dropped on April 15. What’s the matter? What will happen next? Let us
discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

Live and learn. The financial markets’ reaction to the release of US
strong economic data was the same as to the US March jobs report. The
[S&P 500][2] hit a new all-time high for the 22nd time in 2021, and
Treasury yields fell. However, the dollar has suddenly strengthened.
Nonetheless, the greenback didn’t immediately weaken in early April too.
It dropped on the next day. Will the recent [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) repeat itself?

The US economy is strong. Retail sales jumped 9.8% M-o-M in March, which
was the best performance over the last 10 months; industrial production
rose 2.7%, and the number of jobless claims fell to the lowest level
since the pandemic started. There is no longer any doubt about the rapid
growth of US GDP in the second quarter. The worst drop in 10-year
Treasury bond yield since the beginning of November looks surprising. It
could be explained by the Japanese buyers’ return to the US bond market;
they were actively selling Treasuries at the end of the fiscal year in
their country. Another reason is that hedge funds have offloaded more
than $100 billion of the securities since the start of January.

The world’s most significant sell-off of US government bonds so far in
2021 has been in the financial center of the Cayman Islands, well known
as a domicile for leveraged accounts. According to Treasury Department
data, Investors there dumped $62 billion of US sovereign bonds in
February, after selling $49 billion in January.

###  **Dynamics of hedge funds’ Treasury bond holdings and Treasury
yield**

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

In fact, if debt market rates continue to decline despite the rapid
growth of the US economy, this, on the one hand, will confirm the Fed's
words about a temporary surge in inflation. On the other hand, it will
increase the global risk appetite. Both factors are bearish for the USD
index. Investors may need time to realize this fact and resume
[EURUSD][1] purchases.

China’s mixed economic data also press down the euro. Even though
China's GDP in the first quarter performed the best growth of 18.3%,
last year's decline is the reason for this. Compared to October-
December, the growth rate of gross domestic product decreased from 2.6%
to 0.6%. HSBC estimates that China's economy grew 5.4% if low-base
distortions are excluded, down from the pre-crisis 6%. However, I do not
think that everything is bad with the Chinese economy. According to
Bloomberg, production will peak soon, and demand will continue to grow
further, supporting the economy’s sustainable growth.

According to the median gauge of Bloomberg’s experts, the ECB should
slow down the emergency asset purchase program by July and, at the end
of this year, it will signal the termination of the PEPP in March 2022.
At the meeting on April 22, no changes in monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) are expected.
In addition to the euro-area PMI improvement, this fact should support
the euro.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

I believe the situation of early April, when, after a strong US jobs
report, the [EURUSD][1] pair immediately took a pause and then resumed
its growth, is quite likely to repeat. If the price breaks out the
resistance at 1.199, it should continue the rally towards 1.204 and
1.208.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true