+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-06"
description = "US dollar price forecast 06 May 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 06 May 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-05-06

2021-05-06

Dollar is set back by central bank. Forecast as of 06.05.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

Divergence in the economic expansion is a reason to sell the
[EURUSD][1]. However, the Fed’s hawks turn into doves, and the euro
bears are set back. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a
trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

For some traders, the US dollar exchange rate is a puzzle; for others,
the dollar price is, on the contrary, a clue to whether the Fed is right
saying that the consumer price surge is temporary. If the Fed is wrong,
and US inflation should be high for a long time, the central bank will
have to raise the interest rate, supporting the dollar rally. Otherwise,
if the Fed is right, the dollar will not rise even amid the US economic
strength. I am glad about such a trend. The Forex pricing again depends
on the monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), rather than trade wars or pandemics.

The Fed is the primary obstacle setting back the [EURUSD][1] bears. If
the US central bank acted in the old way, one could safely trade the
ideas based on the dollar smile theory. The dollar smile theory suggests
the greenback should strengthen at the recession peak amid high demand
for safe-havens, and then the dollar goes down amid aggressive monetary
stimulus. Finally, at the third stage, the USD again should rise as the
US economy leads ahead of other advanced economies.

To weaken the dollar, global GDP should be recovering evenly. However,
the availability of vaccines and epidemiological conditions are
different in different countries. So, the global economic recovery will
hardly be even. According to Bloomberg research, rich countries will
reach the vaccination level of 70-85% of the population required to
return to normal life in August, the poor - only in 2024.

### Forecasts for reaching herd immunity



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

In March, the US position looked as exclusive as that of China, having
effectively managed the pandemic during most of 2020. As a result, the
greenback grew amid the US exclusivity just as the yuan did last year.
In April, the dollar faced serious competition as the vaccination
campaign progressed in the EU. Investors expect the growth gap between
the EU and the US should narrow. However, the services PMI data prove
the opposite. The US PMI is close to the highest levels since 1997,
while the euro-area PMI doesn’t show consistent growth.

### Dynamics of services PMIs



 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

If the Fed in such conditions used the classical approach of the rate
hikes, which Janet Yellen reminded about just the other day, I would not
hesitate to recommend selling [EURUSD][1]. However, the Fed believes
that strong economic growth is needed to offset the shock resulted from
the pandemic, so monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) will remain ultra-easy for a long time.
When the Fed hawks turn into doves, the dollar is pressed down.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

I believe the market should continue testing the Fed’s strength. The US
April jobs report will be a good test. Strong employment data will
increase the risk of the Treasury yield growth and the [EURUSD][1] drop
towards 1.196 and 1.193. Otherwise, if Treasury yields do not react, the
euro will rise to a level above $1.2045.



The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true