+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-12"
description = "New Zealand dollar price forecast 12 November 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "New Zealand dollar price forecast 12 November 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-12

2020-11-12

Five reasons to buy kiwi. Forecast as of 12.11.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The US and euro area are struggling with the second pandemic wave.
However, in China, Australia, and New Zealand, the economies are
recovering, strengthening the local currencies. Which currency will be
the best performer? Let us discuss the NZD outlook and make up an
[NZDUSD][1] trading plan.

##  **Monthly fundamental forecast for New Zealand dollar**

One of the main beneficiaries of Joe Biden's victory in the US
presidential elections has become the New Zealand dollar. Investors
expect the US-China trade relations to improve, which supports the
currencies of the countries having close trade links with China. Unlike
Australia, New Zealand didn’t accuse China of the COVID-19 laboratory
origins and may not worry about a potential trade war with China.
Australia has to solve the issues associated with Chinese import
tariffs, the delays in cargo acceptance, and anti-dumping
investigations. The deterioration of the trade relations between
Australia and China presses down the [AUDNZD][2].

China is a recognized leader in the fight against the coronavirus
pandemic. However, New Zealand has also performed quite well in pandemic
management. Lockdowns have been efficient. Unlike most countries, which
continue the struggle with the second pandemic wave and look forward to
the COVID-19 vaccines, New Zealand can secure safety for the
inhabitants. The RBNZ is quite optimistic about the prospects of the New
Zealand economy. Yes, the regulator predicts that New Zealand's GDP will
contract by 0.9% in the 2020/2021 fiscal year, which ends in March.
Nonetheless, compared to the previous estimate of -1.5%, the current one
is clearly better.

Unlike the RBA, the RBNZ won’t cut the interest rates stating that the
new financing for the lending program (FLP) would be more effective than
cutting the base interest rate from 0.25% to 0.1%. The central bank
should lower the interest rates on bank loans, thereby supporting the
economy's recovery. Wellington has already fallen into the whale-in-the-
pond trap that is typical of Tokyo. Through aggressive purchases of
bonds within the QE framework, the Reserve Bank increased its share in
the debt market from 6% to 37% within 7 months. In comparison, the Bank
of Japan took three years to increase its share from 11% to 37%.

###  **Central banks’ ownership of government bonds**

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The whale in the pond limits the RBNZ tools in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of monetary
expansion. Amid low bond yields and excessive central bank holdings of
government bonds, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s will hardly rush to invest money into the
local assets. That is why New Zealand could face problems with the
funding of the current account deficit.

### Monthly [NZDUSD][3] trading plan

So, there are several factors that should encourage kiwi bulls. The US-
China trade relations improve, there are no trade disputes between New
Zealand and China, the pandemic managed has been efficient, and the RBNZ
monetary expansion is limited. Yes, Donald Trump has another ten weeks
to shake the markets. But I don’t think Trump will start the trade war
with China. So, one could use the drawdowns to add up to the [NZDUSD][3]
longs opened in [October][4] with the medium-term targets at 0.705 and
0.72.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of NZDUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NZDUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDNZD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/ru/trading/chart?symbol=NZDUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/commodity-currencies-take-a-hit-forecast-for-audusd-nzdusd-and-usdcad-as-of-19102020/
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=five-reasons-to-buy-kiwi-forecast-as-of-12112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=five-reasons-to-buy-kiwi-forecast-as-of-12112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus