+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-23"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 23, 2020

June 23, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.06.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude –** **oil** ****

New margin requirements for the CME oil futures are introduced today. We
shall draw new margin zones based on new extreme price points according
to new margin requirements.

Oil reached Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92] in the middle-term uptrend. If
buyers break this zone out, the next will be Target Zone 6. Otherwise,
the price will be corrected down.

The trend key support is in the zone [32.04 — 31.14].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.06.2020][1]

The short-term uptrend continues. The target in Target Zone 5 [41.67 –
40.92] has been reached. The price will rise higher if buyers break this
zone out and consolidate the price above.

If the oil price is being corrected, I recommend entering new purchases
in the strong support zones, Additional Zone [39.09 - 38.90] and
Intermediary Zone [37.14 - 36.75]. You should enter purchases only after
there forms a pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.06.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [39.09 - 38.90]. TakeProfit: 41.00. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [37.14 - 36.75]. TakeProfit: 41.00. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

Gold has reached Target Zone 5 [1757.2 – 1751.2] this week. If buyers
break the zone out and consolidate the price above, the next target in
the trend will be Target Zone 6 [1817.2 – 1811.2].

The major buy target for trades entered in the trend key support zone is
to break through the high of May.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.06.2020][4]

Gold short-term trend is up. Yesterday, the main buy target was reached,
the price reached Target Zone [1771.3 – 1762.2]. If the price continues
growing, and buyers consolidate the price above the resistance, the next
target will be Gold Zone [1812.5 – 1808.0].

Until Target Zone is broken out, there could start a correction down.
Correction is a chance to enter new gold purchases at good prices. I
recommend looking for buy patterns as close to the strong supports as
possible. The strong support zones are Additional Zone [1742.6 - 1740.6]
and Intermediary Zone [1722.1 — 1718.0].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.06.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:  **

Hold up middle-term buy positions opened at level 1705.6. TakeProfit:
1764.4. StopLoss: 1687.2.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EURUSD is being corrected up in the new downtrend, whose target is
to test Target Zone 2 [1.1058 – 1.1040]. The key resistance is at
[1.1368 – 1.1350]. To sell the euro at good prices, I suggest expecting
the resistance test or looking for a sell pattern at current levels.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.06.2020][7]

The short-term EURUSD trend is down. The price, following the trend, has
broken out Target Zone [1.1240 – 1.1222]. The next downside target is
Gold Zone [1.1149 — 1.1140].

The price is now being corrected and testing the trend border
Intermediary Zone [1.1268 – 1.1259]. Today, I suggest tracking the zone
test and looking for a sell pattern. When there is a pattern, we shall
sell the euro with a target at the low of last Friday+ Gold Zone [1.1149
– 1.1140].

If Intermediary Zone is broken out, and the US session closes the price
above the zone, the local trend will turn up. In this case, the sell
scenario will canceled, and we shall enter bu trades with the target in
the upper Target Zone [1.1368 — 1.1350].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.06.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:   **

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1268 - 1.1259].
TakeProfit: 1.1170, Gold Zone [1.1149 - 1.1140]. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 23.06.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_230620_1.png?w=30&s=5851245ec9602724e71dccd9c7f21e7c
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_230620_2.png?w=30&s=80c58797c2f1e21244cb6ea3b8db4682
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_230620_1.png?w=30&s=a18bd21a460eda7e82462b49436ddcbf
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_230620_2.png?w=30&s=df0af915c62942b0ee64d43e1862a5c0
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_230620_1.png?w=30&s=ec83a8650946069fcfbfe514acc892e3
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_230620_2.png?w=30&s=5b93a3da7d055a6c10d3b5490eddf21f
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-23062020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-23062020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_88.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=5b193dadda0ebeb5fbd62ffe9fa6c307