+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-01"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (1 December 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (1 December 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-01

2020-12-01

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 01.12.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The EURUSD reached the primary target in the short-term uptrend.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The medium-term oil trend has slowed down. The price is a little higher
than Target Zone 2 [44.22 - 43.71]. There could start a correction.

I recommend entering new purchases according to the pattern in the
strong support zones: [43.00 - 42.80] and [41.32 – 40.85]. The target is
to break through the high of last week.

The short-term uptrend continues, but the price is being corrected down.
Yesterday, traders were testing the new Additional Zone [45.58 – 45.46].
They didn’t break out the zone. The downside target in the correction is
the trend key support [43.70 – 43.46].

After the price tests the trend key support, I will recommend entering
buy trades according to the pattern with the target at the high of last
week + Gold Zone [47.38 — 47.14].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Hold down sell trades entered in the zone of [45.00 - 45.70].
TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [43.70 - 43.46]. StopLoss: 45.70.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

The gold price is being corrected up after a strong drop and the
breakout of Target Zone 2 [1829.4 – 1820.1]. However, the downtrend
continues. It is relevant to sell at good prices.

Good sell prices will appear after the test of strong resistances:
[1861.0 - 1850.0] and [1890.8 – 1879.3]. I suggest considering these two
zones as a single resistance area. After the price enters this area, one
could enter sell trades according to the pattern.

The short-term trend is down. Yesterday, bears broke out Gold Zone
[1792.9 – 1787.2]. The next downside target is Target Zone 2 [1735.4 –
1723.9].

Today, I recommend considering strong resistances: Additional Zone
[1796.0 - 1793.0] and Intermediary Zone [1827.5 - 1821.8]. After the
price tests the zones, we shall enter sell trades according to the
pattern. A target to take some of the profits will be at yesterday’s
low.

If any of the margin zones are broken out upside, we shall look for
purchases in the correction with a target at the next margin zone of a
larger degree.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1796.0 - 1793.0]. TakeProfit: 1765.0, Target Zone 2 [1735.4 - 1723.9]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1827.5 - 1821.8]. TakeProfit: 1765.0, Target Zone 2 [1735.4 - 1723.9]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Yesterday, the euro closely approached the primary buy target - Target
Zone 2 [1.2032 – 1.2012].

After that, there has started a correction. The local downturn target is
the test of the support zone of [1.1920 – 1.1892]. If the price breaks
out this zone, it will reach the trend key support [1.1795 — 1.1774].

Let us analyze the short-term chart.

The short-term trend is up. Yesterday, traders reached the primary
target, Target Zone [1.2000 - 1.1977]. The price tested Target Zone but
didn’t break it out. There has started a correction down from the zone.

Following the corrective movement, the price has broken out Additional
Zone [1.1951 – 1.1946]. Therefore, the price could continue falling to
the trend key support [1.1899 — 1.1888].

For today, I suggest two trading scenarios:

  1. Sell in the correction from the zone of [1.1951 - 1.1946] ( if the price goes back under the resistance) and [1.1979 - 1.1974] (according to the pattern).
  2. Buy in the trend in Intermediary Zone [1.1899 - 1.1888] according to the pattern.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the patterns in the resistance zones of [1.1951 - 1.1946], [1.1979 - 1.1974]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1.1899 - 1.1888]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1899 - 1.1888]. TakeProfit: 1.2002. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-01122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-01122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus