+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-30"
description = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week 30 November - 4 December 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week 30 November - 4 December 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-30

2020-11-30

Medium-term forecast for five cryptocurrencies as of 30.11.2020Roman
Onegin

I welcome my readers!

I have prepared a medium-term cryptocurrency forecast based on Elliott
wave analysis of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS, and Ripple. I offer
trading signals for each cryptocurrency pair.

All major cryptocurrency pairs should grow in value following bullish
impulses this week. Let us analyze each [cryptocurrency price](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/cryptocurrency-price/) chart in
more detail.

The article covers the following subjects:

##  **Elliott wave Bitcoin analysis**

 ****

The BTCUSD market continues forming the global corrective wave 4 as a
double zigzag composed of the sub-waves [W]-[X]-[Y]. The linking wave
[X] currently unfolding is a bullish double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y). The sub-
waves (W) and (X) have already completed, and the market is rising in
the zigzag-shaped wave (Y). Let us study its structure in more detail in
the eight-hour timeframe.

Wave (Y) is a simple zigzag A-B-C. Wave A is an impulse, corrective wave
B is a horizontal contracting triangle. There is forming a rapidly
rising impulse wave C that is composed of the sub-waves
[1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5]. The C wave's first four legs must have completed,
and the wave [5] has been half-complete. This week, the price should be
running up to level 20000.00.

### Trading plan for [BTCUSD][1] for the week:

Buy 18542.20, TP 20000.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ethereum analysis**

 ****

There is forming the upward linking wave [X] as a large double zigzag
(W)-(X)-(Y). After two zigzag-shaped waves (W)-(X) completed, there has
started forming the final motive wave (Y), which is also a zigzag A-B-C.
The price is now rising in the bullish impulse C, composed of five sub-
waves. Let study the most recent chart section in more detail in the
shorter timeframe.

The most recent section chart section displays the upward impulse wave C
composed of the sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5]. The first four elements
of the pattern seem to have completed, and the final wave [5] is still
unfolding. This week, the ETHUSD market should be rising to a level of
665.00. One could enter purchases in the current situation.

### Trading plan **[ETHUSD][2] **for the week:

Buy 581.54, TP 665.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Litecoin analysis**

 ****

After the large impulse wave A finished, the market has started forming
the corrective wave B as a triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The sub-
waves [W]-[X]-[Y] should have completed, and there is forming the
linking wave [X] composed of the sub-waves (W)-(X)-(Y), where the final
wave (Y) is also a double zigzag, it hasn’t ended yet. Let us explore
its structure in more detail in the eight-hour timeframe.

The first two legs have completed within the (Y) wave. There forming the
initial element of the final wave Y. The Y wave should be a simple
zigzag [a]-[b]-[c]. The impulse wave [a] should end at a level of around
105.00. Next, the price could go down a little in the [b] correction.
After the [b] wave finishes, the market should resume rising in the
impulse wave [c] towards a level of 145.00. The chart outlines an
approximate trajectory of the future price movement.

### Trading plan for **[LTCUSD][3]**  for the week:

Buy 78.92, TP 145.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave EOS analysis**

 ****

The EOSUSD market is forming the down corrective wave B that is composed
of the sub-waves [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The motive waves [W],[Y], and the
linking wave [X] have completed. There is now forming the second linking
wave [X] as a triple zigzag. Let us see the most recent chart section in
the eight-hour timeframe.

The sub-wave (Z) is forming as the final leg of the bullish triple
zigzag. The (Z) wave is likely to end a simple zigzag A-B-C. The impulse
wave A finished, driving the price up sharply. Next, the market ran down
in the corrective wave B. This week, the market should resume rising in
the impulse wave C to a level of 3.91. This is the previous high made by
the (Y) wave.

### Trading plan for **[EOSUSD][4]**  for the week

Buy 3.12, TP 3.52

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ripple analysis**

 ****

The XRPUSD market continues forming the upward linking wave [X], which
is a double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y). Ther is forming the upward linking wave
(Y). It should be a standard zigzag. The market is sharply rising in the
C impulse. The C wave should end at the level of around the previous
high made by the linking wave [X]. Let explore the C impulse in more
detail in the eight-hour timeframe.

The impulse wave C is composed of five sub-waves. Impulse [3] has driven
the price quite high. Next, the market dropped in correction [4]. There
should be forming the final wave [5], which has been half-complete by
now. The price should be rising in wave [5] to a level of 0.795, which
is the previous high.

### Trading plan for **[XRPUSD][5]** for the week:

Buy 0.622, TP 0.795

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-30112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-30112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus