+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-30"
description = "Euro price forecast 30 November 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 30 November 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-30

2020-11-30

Euro looks beyond the shock. Forecast as of 30.11.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The divergence in the economic expansion is an important driver of Forex
pricing. It seems to be in favor of the USA. Actually, it is not so. Let
us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

##  ** **Monthly** **euro fundamental forecast****

A year ago, trade was the source of [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s’ concerns, and the strong
domestic data were reassuring. Things have changed. Eurozone and the UK
have the largest gaps between manufacturing and services PMIs over the
last 25 years. The domestic demand is far behind the foreign demand,
spurred by China. This is true not only for Europe but for the entire
world. That is the major reason for the [EURUSD][1] rally.

The euro rally up to $1.2 seems to refute the main fundamental analysis
principle: strong economy – strong currency. Economic sentiment in the
eurozone fell in November for the first time in seven months, and
leading indicators from Bloomberg suggest a serious downturn in the
economies of Germany, France, Italy, and Spain. The Bloomberg consensus
forecast suggests a 4% expansion in US GDP in the fourth quarter, while
the currency bloc is likely to face a double-dip recession. What's the
matter? Why is the [EURUSD][1] growing despite the growth-gap?

###  **Dynamics of euro-area economic sentiment**

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

### Dynamics of the recovery in the world’s largest economies

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Like in the US stock market, the Forex traders look beyond the shocks.
If international trade is no longer the source of worries, and it
becomes the primary growth driver, what regions will benefit the most
from the victory over the pandemic and global GDP recovery? They will be
the economies led by foreign demand! First of all, it is the euro area
where the exports share in the GDP is over 40%, while in the USA,
exports account for 15% of the GDP. The US dollar was growing amid trade
wars and US strong domestic demand in 2018-2019. Likewise, the euro will
be strengthening in 2021 amid the increase in the international trade
volume.

The [EURUSD][1] purchases are quite promising. The European companies’
stocks in foreign and domestic demand sectors are still lagging behind
their US peers. However, the situation will radically change as the
global GDP recovers. The capitals outflows from the USA to Europe and
hedging against currency risks by foreign [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s, holding the US
securities, will support the euro’s further growth,

###  **Dynamics of stocks of euro-area and US companies**

 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

###  **Monthly** **[EURUSD][1] trading plan**

Therefore, the current growth-gap between the US and the euro area is
temporary. Investors see beyond the current economic data and bet on the
international trade increase led by China. The surge in the Chinese
manufacturing PMI up to the highest level since 2017 encouraged the
[EURUSD][1] bulls to drove the price close to 1.2.

Under the current conditions, one could buy the euro either on the
corrections down to $1.1885 and $1.1835 or on the breakout of the
resistance zone of $1.1975-$1.198. The euro can well reach the level of
$1.22 already in December-January.

[EURUSD][2] current rate in the Forex market:

EURUSD = 1.19290

1-day change

-0.00315 (-0.26%)

Open an account with a reliable broker and start earning money on an
easy-to-use platform in the global foreign exchange market.

[ Open account ][3]





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.lite.forex/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-looks-beyond-the-shock-forecast-as-of-30112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup