+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-30"
description = "Forecast for euro, yen, franc, New Zealand dollar and Swedish krona as of 30 November 2020| fundamental analysis for EURUSD, EURJPY, NZDJPY, USDCHF, U"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for euro, yen, franc, New Zealand dollar and Swedish krona as of 30 November 2020| fundamental analysis for EURUSD, EURJPY, NZDJPY, USDCHF, U"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-30

2020-11-30

Forex in December: Who will go to Europe at Christmas? Forecast for
EURUSD, EURJPY, NZDJPY, USDCHF and USDSEKDmitri Demidenko

In previous years, crowds of tourists came to Europe to celebrate
Christmas. Everything is different in 2020. How will it affect the
trends of [EURUSD][1], [EURJPY][2], and other currency pairs? Let us
discuss the Forex outlook and make a trading plan.

## Monthly euro fundamental forecast

It isn't easy to build a profitable trading strategy based on seasonal regularities if the entire year is special, different from the previous ones. Recession rarely occurs, once in a decade or even more rarely. That is why patterns, based on the statistics of the asset trends during a particular period of time, often fail. Could we bet on the euro purchases if, for example, the EURUSD rally in January often resulted in the increase of tourism in Europe at Christmas? Who will go to Europe amid the pandemic? Nonetheless, amid such a controversial environment, statistical analysis with the fundamental component continues to yield profits. In [November][3], the profits generated by the purchases of the [NZDJPY][4] (+5.2%), [AUDJPY][5] (+4.4%), and [EURJPY][2] (+2.1%) have compensated for the loss from other trade operations.

The New Zealand dollar is generally the best-performing currency in
December; it closed in the green zone twice more often than in the red
one. The European currencies were also quite strong. Since 1975, the
Swedish krona has strengthened in 29 cases out of 45, the euro and the
Swiss franc grew in 28 cases. Among the outsiders are the Japanese yen,
the US dollar, and the Canadian dollar.

### Rise-and-fall periods

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex analysis_

The Kiwi may have grown more often, but in percentage [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/), CHF, EUR,
and SEK's success looked more impressive. On average, the Swiss franc
added 1.44% in December, the euro - 1.15%, and the Swedish krona - about
1%. In [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of average growth, only the Loonie was losing to the
greenback, and in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of the median, the Japanese yen was behind the
USD.

### Averages and Medians

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex analysis_

In the best years, the New Zealand dollar grew on average by 2.3%, the
Swissy- by 3.4%, the euro- by 2.8%, the Swedish krona – by 2.4%.
Although the Canadian dollar often closed in the red, the loss was quite
small. The CAD declined on average by 1.2%, the yen – by 2.7%.

### Dynamics of currency rates during rise-and-fall periods

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex analysis_

Therefore, based on statistics, the global risk appetite should continue
increasing in December, which I personally would associate with the
beginning of the vaccination. It looks reasonable to buy the
[NZDJPY][4], which corresponds to my concept of the [Kiwi strength][6]
and the [yen weakness][7]. The NZD could go down a little in December
because New Zealand trade partners, such as the EU, UK, and the USA, are
weak. However, it is relevant to buy on the price fall.

As for the European currencies, it will be relevant to trade trends
recovery. The euro-area is likely to face a double-dip recession.
Therefore, weak domestic data, ECB monetary easing, and Christine
Lagarde’s dovish tone will press down the [EURUSD][1] and [EURJPY][2],
which will allow entering longs at good prices. The same strategy is
relevant for the short positions on the [USDCHF][8] and [USDSEK][9]. The
dispute among the Riksbank members, which has extended the QE by 200
billion SEK at the November meeting, could support the SEK growth over
the next few weeks. The central bank’s officials differently interpret
the volume of the monetary stimulus.

[EURUSD][10] current rate in the Forex market:

EURUSD = 1.19290

1-day change

-0.00315 (-0.26%)

Open an account with a reliable broker and start earning money on an
easy-to-use platform in the global foreign exchange market.

[ Open account ][11]





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURJPY&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/november-in-forex-will-there-be-a-disaster-forecast-for-gbpusd-eurgbp-eurjpy-audjpy-nzdjpy-audusd-nzdusd-usdcad-usdnok-and-usdchf-as-of-29102020/
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NZDJPY&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDJPY&returnUrl=true
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/five-reasons-to-buy-kiwi-forecast-as-of-12112020/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/yen-loses-the-firm-ground-forecast-as-of-24112020/
   8. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCHF&returnUrl=true
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDSEK&returnUrl=true
   10. my.lite.forex/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   11. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forex-in-december-who-will-go-to-europe-at-christmas-forecast-for-eurusd-eurjpy-nzdjpy-usdchf-and-usdsek&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup