+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-30"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (30 November 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (30 November 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-30

2020-11-30

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 30.11.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The Oil price has broken out Target Zone 2 [44.22 - 43.71]. The next
growth target is Target Zone 3 [49.32 — 48.81].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The oil price has broken out Target Zone 2 [44.22 – 43.71]. The next
growth target is Target Zone 3 [49.32 - 48.81]. The medium-term is up.

I recommend expecting a correction down and look for a pattern to buy in
[43.00 - 42.81] or [41.32 - 40.85].

In the shorter timeframe, there is a correction down in the short-term
uptrend with the target to test Intermediary Zone [43.70 – 43.46]. The
price is going down from the strong resistance Additional Zone [45.69 –
45.57].

Bears have just broken through the low of last week, and so we should
rearrange Additional Zone. It is now in the zone of [45.58 – 45.46]. If
there is a correction again, we shall look for sell trades in the zone.

If the price breaks through the local low today, we shall rearrange the
resistance zones.

The downside target is Intermediary Zone [43.70 — 43.46].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Hold down sell trades entered in the zone of [45.00 - 45.70].
TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [43.70 - 43.46]. StopLoss: 45.70.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold is going down in the medium-term downtrend. The downside target is
Target Zone 3 [1736.4 – 1727.1]. We shall enter new sell trades on the
correction after the resistance [1850.4 — 1890.8] is tested.

It is clear from the short-term chart that the price didn’t break out
Gold Zone [1792.9 - 1787.2] on Friday. Today, bears have tried to break
the zone out, but now, the price is rolling back into the support zone.

If the price goes to the support Gold Zone and breaks out the resistance
at 1796.0, there will be a chance to buy in the correction with the
first target in Intermediary Zone [1827.5 – 1821.8].

We will enter new sell trades at good prices in the trend key resistance
zone.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. If the price breaks out level 1796.0, buy in the correction. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1827.5 - 1821.8]. StopLoss: beyond the next low.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1827.5 - 1821.8]. TakeProfit: 1765.5. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD broke out the strong resistance zone [1.1920 – 1.1892] last
week. The uptrend continues. The upside target is Target Zone 2 [1.2032
- 1.2012].

I recommend entering purchases on the correction. Two variants to buy:
the zone of [1.1920 – 1.1892] and the trend key support [1.1768 —
1.1747].

Let us switch to a shorter timeframe and analyze the short-term trend.
The EURUSD is trading up in the short-term.

Traders have reached the primary target in the trend, Target Zone
[1.2000 - 1.1977]. We should exit all purchases and prepare for a
correction.

The price could reach Additional Zone [1.1924 - 1.1919] and Intermediary
Zone [1.1872 – 1.1862] in the correction. We shall enter new purchases
in these zones with the target to break through the local high.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1924 - 1.1919]. TakeProfit: 1.1977. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1872 - 1.1862]. TakeProfit: 1.1977. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-30112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-30112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus