+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-17"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 17.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 17.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 17, 2020

August 17, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 17.08.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil price broke out Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. The next growth
target in the middle-term uptrend is now Target Zone 6 [49.17 – 48.42].

I recommend entering purchases both at the current prices, close to the
broken-out TZ5, and in the trend key support [37.23 - 36.61]. We need a
pattern to buy.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 17.08.2020][1]

The short-term oil trend is up, however, buyers can't yet break out the
intraday resistance Additional Zone [42.70 - 42.55]. Therefore, we can
expect a deep correction into the trend key support zone [40.33 -
40.02]. After the key support is tested, we shall enter new oil
purchases according to the pattern.

For today, I recommend entering new short trades in AZ. If there is not
a sell pattern, the price can break out the resistance. In this case, we
shall trade according to an alternative scenario, and look for buy
entries at the retest of the broken-out zone. The target will be in
[40.33 - 40.02].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 17.08.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [42.70 - 42.55]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [40.33 - 40.02]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [40.33 - 40.02]. TakeProfit: 43.40. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold price is testing the key resistance of the middle-term downtrend
[1957.9 – 1949.2]. Enter sell trades with a target at the low of last
week.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 17.08.2020][4]

Let us look at the shorter timeframe. There is a local uptrend. Last
week, the price tested Target Zone [1957.9 - 1949.2]. The zone wasn’t
broken out, and the price is being corrected now.

I recommend buying gold in the short-term uptrend only if there is a
pattern in the trend key support [1919.8 - 1915.7]. The target will be
at the high of last week.

The buy scenario will be canceled if there is a false breakout of the
high of August 13 without the test of the key support.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 17.08.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

Open middle-term sell positions in Target Zone [1957.9 – 1949.2]
according to the pattern. TakeProfit: 1863.4, Target Zone 3 [1829.0 -
1820.8]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

Last week, the EURUSD grew from the key support [1.1733 – 1.1715]. The
upside target is Target Zone 4 [1.1914 – 1.1896]. There is not yet a buy
pattern in the medium-term timeframe.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 17.08.2020][7]

The euro short-term trend is up. The price has reached the first upside
target for purchases entered in Intermediary Zone [1.1811 – 1.1802], the
local high has been updated.

If you have buy positions opened in Intermediary Zone [1.1811 - 1.1802],
I recommend you to close them at the current prices.

It shall enter new purchases after the trend key support [1.1776 -
1.1767] is tested and there is a buy pattern.

It will be relevant to sell the euro if Intermediary Zone [1.1776 –
1.1767] is broken out.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 17.08.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1776 - 1.1767].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1911 - 1.1893]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 17.08.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_170820_1.png?w=30&s=25b4ed20d3783b8ab246dc22d9a8333e
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_170820_2.png?w=30&s=639281ff17d018a10b5d3c5b9bcf3ffb
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_170820_1.png?w=30&s=4727740d3717646cb311a4aeb6291421
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_170820_2.png?w=30&s=5162b1547c9b28d4067aeb987a738f6b
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_170820_1.png?w=30&s=5364613d172c3415e812c4d6b347aa70
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_170820_2.png?w=30&s=ede9db7098007df88e27f77286d7f85e
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-17082020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-17082020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_100.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=aad433b7d93b2e9e2f60c2cb37503d35