+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-17"
description = "Brent forecast for 17.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Brent forecast for 17.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 17, 2020

August 17, 2020

Brent forecast: Oil has been trading in the corridor for too longDmitri
Demidenko

## Oil price fundamental forecast for today

### The longer lasts consolidation, the more likely is the trend to
start

The longer consolidation lasts, the more likely is the trend start

Beginner traders like to join strong trends. Experienced traders know
that it is more beneficial to monitor the assets that have been trading
flat for a long time. The consolidation period will end sooner or later,
being followed by new trends. The longer is the market trading in a
narrow range, the more chances are that a sharp movement should start.
With this regard, oil is quite a promising asset.

At first sight, the oil market should be moving down. The OPEC+ is
gradually increasing oil production, international organizations lower
their forecasts for oil global demand amid the difficult epidemiological
situation in the US and the world. Besides, judging by the past
experience, the US oil producers should be increasing the output as the
prices grow. Unfortunately for the oil bears, the oil price is not
falling. It is a reason to think that, if the market doesn’t go where it
should, it is likely to go in the opposite direction.

To the surprise of many [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s, the United States is the main reason
for optimism. According to  Baker Hughes data, the number of the US oil
rig has dropped to the lowest level since 2005. It is the leading
indicator of US oil production. According to The U.S. Energy Information
Administration (EIA) forecasts, the US crude oil production will be
11.26 million barrels per day in 2020. It is far less than the
production before the pandemic.

### Dynamics of US rig count

![LiteForex: Brent forecast for 17.08.2020][1]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

### Dynamics of US crude oil production

![LiteForex: Brent forecast for 17.08.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The US oil-producing companies have changed the strategy. Earlier, they
increased crude oil production as the prices grew. Now, they prefer to
pay off debts.

In addition to a decline in the US crude oil output, the US demand for
oil and liquid fuels is surprisingly high (U.S. crude oil stocks are
declining for the third consecutive week). Besides, the US dollar is
weak. So, it is clear now why the tailwinds for oil are blowing from the
USA.

As for the global demand, one shouldn’t fear the decline in the demand
forecasts by the OPEC to 90.6 million barrels per day, and the IEA - to
91.9 million barrels per day. Both organizations take into account the
growth in the number of COVID-19 cases in the USA. However, according to
US domestic data, the US economy can adjust to it. Furthermore, once
there had been reported that China is going to boost the purchases of
the US energy products in the August-September period to meet the
targets of the phase one trade deal, and the oil price immediately
started growing.

In my opinion, the long-term outlook for the oil market is bullish.
Sooner or later, the global economy will rebound, especially if there
are coronavirus vaccines. The oil global demand will be also growing as
the economy is recovering. As for global oil supply, even if the OPEC+
has increased crude oil production, it is far from the pre-crisis
levels. Moreover, the US oil producers are out of the game. So, I
recommend holding up the [UKBrent][3] longs entered at [level $44 a
barrel][4].

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of UKBrent in real time mode

![Brent forecast: Oil has been trading in the corridor for too long][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/rig-rout-17-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=295d82556c7ee6eb23e54388d3ae4ce8
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/production-usa-17-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=d7a2aaeaa926555dddfd878f5fed11b2
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=UKBrent&returnUrl=true
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/brent-forecast-dont-play-against-the-oil-fed/
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=brent-forecast-oil-has-been-trading-in-the-corridor-for-too-long&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=brent-forecast-oil-has-been-trading-in-the-corridor-for-too-long&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-brent-17-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=2e1c4a8e9de2ad61e9f90ac35d8d6c05