+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-17"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 17.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 17.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 17, 2020

August 17, 2020

EUR/USD forecast: Dollar is out of fashionDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental U.S. dollar forecast for today

### USD shorts are now the most popular Forex trading strategy

The market is driven by emotions. If the [EUR/USD][1] bulls are taken by
the euphoria, no negative economic data will hold them back! The U.S.
industrial production data have exceeded the forecasts, the U.S. retail
sales are back at the pre-crisis levels. In the euro-area, however, the
euro-area employment has dropped the most on record since the series
begun in 1995. But the euro buyers are going ahead. Investors are
confident that the euro-area economy will recover, and the U.S. growth
will face a recession amid the coronavirus pandemic.

BofA Merrill Lynch notes that 36% of asset managers surveyed by the bank
said the U.S. dollar sell positions are their favourite trading
strategy, the highest in the [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) of research. This strategy is much
ahead of all the others, its proportion increased by 6% from 30% in
July, and, most likely, it will continue to gain popularity. BofA
Merrill Lynch names, among other reasons, the loss of the greenback's
position as a reserve currency. In fact, the countries that are under
pressure from the USA are active participants in the process of de-
dollarization. The proportion of the US currency in the trade
settlements between Russia and China has been for the first time below
50%. In 2015, for example, the dollar’s share in the Russia-China trade
settlements was more than 90%.

### Dynamics of USD share in China-Russia trade settlements

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 17.08.2020][2]

 _Source: Wall Street Journal_

Washington tries to affect Moscow using sanctions, but it uses much more
sophisticated measures concerning Beijing. President Donald Trump
ordered ByteDance to divest the U.S _._  operations of its app TikTok as
the social media will cease to work in the USA in 90 days. A U.S.
reprieve that had allowed some US companies to work with Huawei without
a license now expires. The USA warns that the sanctions will target
other China’s corporations, including Alibaba.

The US-China relations are getting tense, the parties even delayed the
meeting planned for August 15 to assess the fulfilment of obligations
under the trade agreement signed in January. The [EUR/USD][1] bulls,
however, are not concerned about the trade conflict escalation. They
expect that amid such a scenario the euro’s share in the global FX
reserves will increase. According to 40% of asset managers polled by
BofA Merrill Lynch, this process will start already in 2021.

Forex seems to be taken away by euphoria. Hedge funds’ dollar longs
versus the world eight major currencies have been in the red for the
first time since May 2018. The main reason is said to be speculators’
growing interest in the euro.

### Dynamics of speculative dollar positions and Treasury real yields

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 17.08.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Of course, bulls’ enthusiasm used to quickly result in the capitulation
in the past. However, under the current conditions, I mean the difficult
epidemiological situation in the USA, Fed’s grim projections, and the
upcoming presidential election in November, the US stock indexes are
growing, and the [EUR/USD][1] can well grow as well. Amid the current
situation, it is important to check buyers’ willingness to continue the
rally anyway. If the resistance at 1.188 is broken out, the pair can
well continue rising.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![EUR/USD forecast: Dollar is out of fashion][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/ru/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/dollar-china-russia-17-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=f4b66d71f849aaa6e352916a34b12381
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/dollar-cftc-17-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=3c772dd75c9cf03da039e0e90f1ae2a4
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-dollar-is-out-of-fashion&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-dollar-is-out-of-fashion&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-17-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=fd057173a5a20423ed92928afc058a33