+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-17"
description = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 17, 2020

August 17, 2020

Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysisRoman Onegin

## Forecast for BTCUSD, LTCUSD, ETHUSD, EOSUSD, XRPUSD pairs

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[BTCUSD][1]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][2]**

The BTCUSD market is forming a long-term side-ways corrective wave 4 as
a bearish double zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]. There is now forming a linking up
wave [X], with wave (Y) unfolding inside. Wave (Y) is a simple upward
zigzag A-B-C. Let us see the chart in more detail in a shorter
timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][3]

At the most recent section of the chart, there is unfolding the impulse
wave A that is composed of five sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5]. After the
sideways corrective wave [4] completed as a horizontal contracting
triangle, the market has started rising in the final impulse wave [5].
Correction (4) has completed within impulse [5], and there is developing
the final wave 5. The uptrend is likely to finish around a level of
12600.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[ETHUSD][4]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][5]**

After the down wave [Y] completed as a zigzag (A)-(B)-(C), the ETHUSD
market has started rising in the upward linking wave [X]. The [X] is
likely to be a double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y). The first two-sub-waves (W)
and (X) have completed as standard zigzags. The final zigzag (Y) is now
developing. Let us see its structure in more detail in the eight-hour
timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][6]

Sub-waves A and B have completed within the (Y) zigzag, and the final
impulse wave C is now unfolding. It is composed of five sub-waves
[1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5]. The price is likely to be rising in the sub-waves
[3]-[4]-[5] towards a level of 545.00 over the next few weeks. At level
545.00, wave (Y) will reach the Fibonacci retracement of 161.8% of the
zigzag-shaped wave (W)

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[LTCUSD][7]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][8]**

The LTCUSD market continues forming the global down triple zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The final bear wave [Z] is now unfolding as a
standard zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). The first element of this zigzag, impulse
wave (A), has completed. The corrective wave (B) should soon finish.
Next, the market will continue declining in the (C) impulse, as it is
outlined in the chart. Let us study the structure of the (B) wave in
more detail in a shorter timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][9]

The corrective wave (B) is composed of three main sub-waves A-B-C. Wave
A and B have completed, and the C wave is still developing. Wave C is
unfolding as a simple five-wave impulse [1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5]. The first
two short sub-waves have completed within this pattern, and the bullish
impulse [3] is now developing. Presumably, the entire uptrend will
finish at level 83.00, which is the previous high made by corrective
wave 4.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[EOSUSD][10]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][11]**

The EOSUSD market continues forming the large down triple zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The first three elements of this pattern have
completed. The second linking wave [X] is now developing. It is
unfolding as a standard zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). The wave should complete
around a level of 4.40. Next, the market could reverse and start
declining the final wave [Z]. Let us see the structure of the wave [X]
in the eight-hour timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][12]

Wave (A) is a bullish five-wave impulse, the down corrective wave (B) is
a double zigzag W-X-Y. The final impulse wave (C) is currently
developing. As the first four elements of wave (C) look complete, the
price should be rising in wave 5 towards a level of 4.40.

* * *

###  **Wave analysis for[XRPUSD][13]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][14]**

The XRPUSD market continues forming the down triple zigzag. It is clear
from the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) timeframe that, after the bear wave [Y] completed as a
double zigzag, the Ripple price has started rising in the linking wave
[X]. The [X] wave is unfolding as a standard zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). The
impulse wave (C) of t his pattern is currently forming. Let us study the
structure of the linking wave [X] in more detail in the H8 timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][15]

Within the upward zigzag (A)-(B)-(C), there have completed the impulse
wave (A) and the down corrective wave (B) that is composed of the sub-
waves W-X-Y. The impulse wave (C) is currently developing. After the
down corrective wave 4 completed as a double zigzag, the price has
started rising rapidly in the final wave 5. The Ripple price is likely
to continue rising to a level of 0.354, which is the previous high hit
by the B correction.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][16]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][17] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysis][18]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/17-08-2020X/BTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=ed5978e352dba49f4fd1ad5cf1bcf0da
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/17-08-2020X/BTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=14b75352850c0c66d63ff0ee1d31fa4a
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/17-08-2020X/ETHUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=a336d535e398409e19f6075071cc83e4
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/17-08-2020X/ETHUSDH8.png?w=30&s=520ab6cb0cbde001fccd7127af45a75c
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/17-08-2020X/LTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=79125028dd4aa09ff5552e02e9dc2be6
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/17-08-2020X/LTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=f4d43f6a55b64b3c8faefcd5780ae8c7
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/17-08-2020X/EOSUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=cb61ad7708935a7003754a9bd72a5c37
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/17-08-2020X/EOSUSDH8.png?w=30&s=075399dd4ab1e1d8ac6870c60a038fff
   13. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/17-08-2020X/XRPUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=da9ead168111f8f49f28f607359a580c
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/17-08-2020X/XRPUSDH8.png?w=30&s=15ea736c81b5fea8f518cc6a095edb26
   16. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-08-17&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   17. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-08-17&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/1-elliott-waves-weekly-forecast-for-[BTC](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/who-is-the-creator-of-bitcoin/)usd-ethusd-ltcusd-eosusd-xrpusd_1000x545.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1480cfce2406c81b57be8a77076342f1