+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-17"
description = "Will Fear affect the market?"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Will Fear affect the market?"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 17, 2020

July 17, 2020

Market wanders through the desertDmitri Demidenko

##  **Navigating can be hard**

You gotta hustle if you want to survive. In 2018 analysts would
regularly turn to Twitter while in 2020 they re-trained to be
epidemiologists.  Trade wars and pandemics became the main drivers of
exchange rate formation and nothing can be done about that. You can’t
simply say that you don’t often understand what’s going on or else you
will lose your job. Still, old school experts blame the market for being
paradoxic. They continue to believe in the monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)’s divergence
and wander through the desert like Moses once did: it’s hard to navigate
in the desert without moss.

![LiteForex: Will Fear affect the market?][1]

The “market takes account of everything” concept is flourishing. Stock
indexes collapsed in February on recession expectations although macro-
statistics hadn’t given any bad signals. Then they have grown over 40%
of the level of March’s trough even if the Covid situation has been
getting worse and worse in the USA. Apparently, [S&P 500][2] has its
reasons for growing.   If husband gives you flowers for no reason, there
still must be a reason, right? Does the US stock market believe in
vaccines?  Or do they really believe that the corrective potential is
limited because of Fed’s big liquidity? Euphoria is still ruling over
the market. It’s even more strange as economy is being ruled by Fear.

According to the University of Chicago’s research, the fear of disease
plays a bigger role in the population’s economic behaviour than any
other rules or governmental support measures. While other countries
report that the epidemiological situation is under control, the US
situation continues getting worse. As a consequence, the Americans will
need more time to return to their normal lifestyles, which will affect
the economy.

> \- The unemployment rate will be cut in a few years.

>

> \- Great! Will the economy grow then?

>

> \- No, it’s just because some working population will die out.

According to National Bureau of Economic Research, the employment rates
in Covid-affected and Covid-unaffected states aren’t much different.
People are governed by Fear. If the death toll starts growing together
with the number of new coronavirus cases, the stock market’s euphoria
will yield place to panics. What’s more, based on P/E, [S&P 500][2] is
as oversold as it was during the dotcom crisis when the bubble burst
out...

![LiteForex: Will Fear affect the market?][3]

But the pandemic isn’t the only thing that makes stock indexes collapse.
Donald Trump continues tweeting and seems to forget that spoken words
fly away. The US president continues criticizing China: “We made a great
trade deal. But as soon as the deal was done, the ink wasn’t even dry,
and they hit us with the plague”. However, the States holds off
punishing Beijing with the same stick used in 2018-2019. Their dog isn’t
mad, it’s just a dog of principle. ![LiteForex: Will Fear affect the
market?][4]



Thus, we live in a world where the main question is whether the US stock
market’s euphoria will yield place to Fear or calm the panicky economy.
Every trader must want to have a look into the future, but if no one has
ever visited us from there, the future might not exist at all.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of SPX in real time mode

![Market wanders through the desert][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/analyst-17-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=d2dc343cc62c15c8420a673e5bf4d437
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/markets-17-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=c2f6901baaf1eb01756c7c7ccc7731e7
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/dog-17-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=434eb0f29c4d33f12a2462e11fdcdaad
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=market-wanders-through-the-desert&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=market-wanders-through-the-desert&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/liteforex-blog-spx-17-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=eb4fc1014d1d5d450201e289b4fab055