+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-25"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, EURUSD for December 28-31 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, EURUSD for December 28-31 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-25

2020-12-25

Medium-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD 25.12.2020Alex Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest trading
signals for traders who trade in medium-term trends.

EURUSD pair ends the current pre-holiday week in the phase of correction
to the medium-term uptrend.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for next week: USCrude analysis

The last trading week of this year is marked with a medium-term oil
uptrend. Despite the fact that the trend is upward, oil is currently
trading in correction. The targets for the correction are level 45.87
and Target Zone [44.67 - 44.20].

Enter short trades near Target Zone 3 according to the patterns on the
short-term timeframe.

In order to buy oil, the bulls have to regain control of the situation.
To do this, traders need to break out of the resistance TZ 3 and
consolidate above. In this case, let's set the next growth target in the
Target Zone 4 [54.72 - 54.21].

### [USCrude][1] Trading tips for the upcoming week:

Sell at the trendline according to the pattern. TakeProfit: 45.87,
Target Zone [44.67 - 44.20]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for next week: XAUUSD analysis

At the end of this year, gold consolidated in accumulation zone and left
traders in contemplation. The medium-term trend remains down. This week
traders tested the key resistance of the trend [1890.8 - 1879.3] but
could not break out of the level.

For sales, traders need to break out of the trendline and consolidate
the price below. In this case, prices will have three targets:

  1. December 14’s low

  2. November’s low

  3. Target Zone 3 [1736.4 - 1727.1].

Consider buying gold if the price follows an alternative scenario and
consolidates above the Target Zone [1890.8 - 1879.3]. In this case, the
medium-term trend will turn up, and we will look for a purchase with a
target in the Target Zone 2 [2005.8 - 1994.3].

### [XAUUSD][2] Trading tips for the upcoming week:

Sell according to the pattern in Target Zone [1890.8 - 1879.3].
TakeProfit: 1818.0, 1766.5, Target Zone 3 [1736.4 - 1727.1]. StopLoss:
according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/dollar price forecast for next week: EURUSD analysis

EURUSD pair ends the current pre-holiday week in the phase of correction
to the medium-term uptrend. This week, players have broken out of the
trend line and consolidated below. The target of the correction is the
low of 1.2122. The second target is the key support of the trend [1.2088
- 1.2070].

I recommend keeping trendline sales up to the targets. If possible, it
is better to move stop loss to the breakeven.

If the prices rise next week and Target Zone 3 [1.2232 - 1.2212] is
broken out, the euro will again attract bulls to its side. In this case,
wait for the update of the local high on the 4-hour chart, then rebuild
the trendline and look for longs at it with the target at Target Zone 4
[1.2441 - 1.2420].

### [EURUSD][3] Trading tips for the upcoming week:

Hold the euro shorts made at the trendline. TakeProfit: 1.2122, Target
Zone [1.2088 - 1.2070]. StopLoss: at breakeven.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-25122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-25122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus