+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-25"
description = "Forecast for the pound's price for 25 November 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for the pound's price for 25 November 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-25

2020-11-25

Pound may make a bare-bones deal. Forecast as of 25.11.2020Dmitri
Demidenko

The markets expect London and Brussels to sign a deal, even if it's just
bare bones. How will that affect the [GBPUSD][1]? Let's check and make a
trading plan.

## Quarterly fundamental forecast for pound sterling

October's [advice][2] about buying the [GBPUSD][1] with a target at 1.34
hit the bullseye again. Since early November, the British pound has been
one of the top three performers among the G10 currencies, having grown
3.7% against the greenback amid successful clinical trials of a COVID-19
vaccine, a new fiscal stimulus, and Brexit deal expectations. Only the
NZ and Australian dollars are ahead.

Just like the Americans, who aren't waiting for the US economy to
recover, buying stocks, the Britishers are increasing long positions in
the pound sterling, hoping that London and Brussels will make a deal at
the last moment. Any deal will satisfy the markets even if it just
outlines a future agreement's foundation. That’s what's important and
what most [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s hope for. However, the [GBPUSD's][1] reversal risks,
reflecting the difference between the Call and Put option premiums, have
recently come over to the dollar's side. Most probably, traders fear
that profits in long positions will be fixed, based on the "sell on
rumors, buy on facts" principle.

### GBPUSD evolution and reversal risks

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The EU saw many situations when only 24 hours were left until the
critical point, and a deal was finally made by the evening after many
years of negotiations. Brussels has got steel nerves: it often
negotiated with a stronger opponent and got what it wanted, eventually.
The belief in a Brexit deal looks therefore grounded and helps the pound
grow.

Undoubtedly, the [GBPUSD's][1] rally wouldn’t be so impressive if not
for the USD's weakness. The global risk appetite growth, safe-haven
asset sell-offs, and lower political uncertainty hit the greenback.
Donald Trump's administration is getting ready for the presidency
transition to Biden. Trump's Twitter won't disturb [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s with weird
comments any longer. The US dollar is receding, and those currencies
that have got their own trumps are more successful. The Australian and
NZ dollars' trump is China, and the pound sterling's one is a Brexit
deal.

It doesn't even matter that UK retail sales dropped to their lowest
since June according to CBI, business activity grew, and the Exchequer
unveiled another fiscal stimulus package. This time, it's £4.3 billion,
£2.9 of which will be allocated to 1 million jobless to get them back to
work. Boris Johnson promised that the high-risk group for COVID-19 would
have been vaccinated by Easter. So, the pent-up demand effect will
catalyze the GDP's growth as soon as the UK has handled the coronavirus
issue.

 **Quarterly trading plan for**[ **GBPUSD**][1]

Thus, the [GBPUSD's][1] long-term prospects look bullish. In the short
term, the pound risks facing sell-offs at $1.34-1.35 because of the
"sell on rumors, buy on facts" strategy. If so, we will be able to open
long positions targeted at $1.365 and $1.38.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/pound-theres-always-hope-analysis-as-of-21102020/
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-may-make-a-bare-bones-deal-forecast-as-of-25112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-may-make-a-bare-bones-deal-forecast-as-of-25112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus