+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-25"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (25 November 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (25 November 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-25

2020-11-25

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 25.11.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The oil price has reached the target for middle-term purchases, Target
Zone 2.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil has reached the target for the middle-term buy positions, Target
Zone 2. If the US session closes the price above the zone, the next
upside target will be Target Zone 3 [49.32 – 48.81].

The trend key support is in the zone [40.75 — 40.28].

In the local uptrend, the oil price has reached Target Zone [45.24 -
44.77]. Therefore, the primary scenario to buy has worked out.

The oil price should rise higher if it breaks out and consolidates above
TZ.

Nonetheless, the uptrend continues, and I suggest entering buy trades in
the strong support zones with a target at today’s high. The strong
support zones are: Additional Zone [44.32 - 44.20] and Intermediary Zone
[43.13 — 42.89].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [44.32 - 44.20]. TakeProfit: 45.48. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [43.13 - 42.89]. TakeProfit: 45.48. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

The US session closed the price below the support Target Zone 2 [1829.4
– 1820.1] yesterday. We can record the support breakout when the price
closes below the zone once again. If so, the middle-term gold downtrend
will continue with the downside target at Target Zone 3 [1736.4 —
1727.1].

In the short-term downtrend, the gold price broke out Target Zone
[1850.4 – 1838.9]. The next downside target is Gold Zone [1792.9 –
1787.2].

If gold price starts a correction up, we shall enter sell trades in the
strong resistance zones: Additional Zone [1832.0 - 1829.1] and
Intermediary Zone [1863.6 - 1857.8]. The first target is at today’s low.

It will be relevant to buy gold in the short-term if the bulls break out
at least the first resistance zone, AZ.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1832.0 - 1829.1]. TakeProfit: 1801.5, Gold Zone [1792.9 - 1787.2]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1863.6 - 1857.8]. TakeProfit: 1801.5, Gold Zone [1792.9 - 1787.2]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

In the EURUSD price chart, there is forming an accumulation zone a
little higher than the broken-out Target Zone [1.1832 – 1.1812]. The
middle-term trend is up, the upside target is Target Zone 2 [1.2032 –
1.2012]. It is relevant to enter purchases on the correction.

We should rearrange the margin zones in the H1 chart as the US session
closed the price above Intermediary Zone [1.1873 – 1.1861]. The short-
term trend has turned up, and the buy target is the upper Target Zone
[1.2000 – 1.1977].

We can draw the trend key support from today’s high. The key support is
in the zone of [1.1806 – 1.1795]. I recommend considering euro buy
trades on the correction according to the pattern in the support zone.
One must take a part of profits at the local high.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1806 - 1.1795].
TakeProfit: 1.1908. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-25112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-25112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus