+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-20"
description = "GBP/USD forecast for 20.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "GBP/USD forecast for 20.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 20, 2020

August 20, 2020

Fundamental Pound forecast for todayDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental Pound forecast for today

### Sterling bulls were set back by the Fed

What goes up must come down. The GBP seemed to be the winner. Robust
data on the UK inflation in July, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s' unwillingness to consider
the stalled situation with the Brexit pushed the [GBP/USD][1] up to the
eight-month high. [Long positions ][2][opened at 1.302][2] and boosted
on the breakouts of the [resistances at 1.3135, ][3][and 1.31][3]9
seemed to be winning. But that is the Forex market. When one looks a
winner, there soon comes a failure.

I have many times stresses that the [GBP/USD][1] rally is the story of,
first of all, the weak US dollar. Yes, the pair was above the pre-crisis
levels; however, the trade-weighted Sterling index is still lower than
it was before the pandemic. Moreover, six-month pound risk reversals
signal that traders prefer to sell the GBP till the end of the
transition period. It suggests a no-deal Brexit; although Boris Johnson
tells Ireland's prime minister Micheal Martin, he wants to strike a deal
with the EU.

The [GBP/USD][1] rally, ahead of the release of the FOMC meeting
minutes, resulted from the UK inflation rise to 1% that hardly deceived
anyone. The BoE won't sound hawkish because of it; the bond market
simply ignored the information. Furthermore, the analysts polled by
Bloomberg say that the surge in consumer prices is temporary. A drop in
energy prices and weak employment will hold back the CPI growth. If the
BoE forecasts are not met, and the UK economy doesn't recover by the end
of 2021 (according to Bloomberg experts, it will be 5% than before the
crisis by that time), Andrew Bailey and his colleagues will have to
lower the bank interest rate and expand the QE pace.

###  **Dynamics of the UK inflation**

![LiteForex: GBP/USD forecast for 20.08.2020][4]

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg._

### Forecasts for UK GDP

![LiteForex: GBP/USD forecast for 20.08.2020][5]

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg._

So, the sterling outlook is quite negative amid several factors.
Increased risks that the BoE will continue the rate-cutting cycle,
unsolved Brexit issues, and the weakness of the UK economy. The GBP/USD
rally looks overstretched, and the minutes of the FOMC July meeting has
proven it. Once the Fed expressed unwillingness to control the Treasury
yield growth or lower the interest rates below zero, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s have
started buying the dollar.

The [GBP/USD][1] fall was deep. If the pair breaks out the supports at
1.3055 and 1.302, the correction is likely to continues down to 1.2945
and 1.2875. However, the long-term outlook for the sterling, in my
opinion, is bullish. Boris Johnson has already proven his skill to solve
problems at the last moment. He is not going to undermine his
reputation, already spoiled by COVID-19. Yes, there are only seven weeks
left, and the parties have not yet come to a compromise. Investors,
after all, are used to the fact that London solves the problems at the
last moment.

As for the weakness of the UK economy, which economy is not weak now?
Every country has its hardships, and the UK will not necessarily be the
worst to manage them. I am still optimistic about the [GBP/USD][1]
future. Following the short-term sell trades, I will consider long-term
purchases.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

![Fundamental Pound forecast for today][8]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/gbpusd-forecast-pound-lands-experts-in-the-soup/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/gbpusd-forecast-pound-caught-tailwinds/
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/cpi-uk-20-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=c2884b18c4a008fceec95796618069b0
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/forecast-gdp-uk-20-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=ac007213b7d2e2e646d1deb4b3d46da1
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=fundamental-pound-forecast-for-today&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=fundamental-pound-forecast-for-today&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-gbpusd-20-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=7a4905b07129dcb6cdd8f235af936aea