+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-03"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 03.09.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 03.09.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

September 3, 2020

September 3, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 03.09.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

The oil price is being corrected down in the middle-term chart. Sellers
are testing the support at Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. If the support
is broken out, the correction will continue down to the downside target
at Target Zone [37.34 — 36.72].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 03.09.2020][1]

The short-term trend is turning down now. The price broke out Additional
Zone [42.00 – 41.84] at the Asian session this morning. It is now
relevant to enter sell trades with a target in Intermediary Zone [40.44
– 40.13].

After the test of IZ, we shall see if bulls will hold this support up or
the price will continue falling.

Today, we shall look for sell signals at the current prices or in the
resistance zone of [42.77 — 42.62].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 03.09.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:**

Sell in the zone of [41.84 - 42.77]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone
[40.44 - 40.13]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold is back in the trading range of [1962.0 – 1903.5]. According to the
previous trading recommendations, we expect the price to go down to the
lower channel border at 1903.5. When this level is tested, we shall
expect a buy pattern. If level 1903 is broken out downside, the price is
70% likely to run down into Target Zone 2 [1829.4 – 1820.1].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 03.09.2020][4]

The trading idea to sell gold in Additional Zone [1969.1 - 1966.8] with
a target in Intermediary Zone [1945.9 - 1941.2] has worked out
successfully. Let us analyze the current market situation.

Gold has been falling in price over the last two days. Yesterday, the
price achieved the key support of the local uptrend [1945.9 – 1941.2] at
the US session. Sellers are trying to break it out and consolidate the
price below. If the US session closes the price below the support zone
today, starting from tomorrow, we shall sell gold with a target in the
lower TZ [1899.4 – 1890.1].

Today, aggressive traders could enter sell trades in the resistance
Additional Zone [1957.0 – 1954.7] according to the pattern.

Although the trend is formally up, there are no buy signals.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 03.09.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1957.0 - 1954.7].
TakeProfit: 1933.0, Target Zone [1899.4 - 1890.1]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The EUR/USD has been corrected down to the key support zone of the
middle-term uptrend [1.1811 – 1.1791]. The further trend is being
determined now. If the key low is broken through, we shall open medium-
term sell positions. The key low is the low of the last two weeks, level
1.1760.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 03.09.2020][7]

The EUR/USD short-term trend turned down yesterday. The price broke out
Intermediary Zone [1.1911 – 1.1901] and reached Target Zone [1.1811 –
1.1791]. We shall now track the reaction of buyers to this middle-term
support.

If the price is corrected up today, we shall enter sell trades according
to the patterns. The strong resistances to enter trades are now
Additional Zone [1.1849 - 1.1844] and Intermediary Zone [1.1904 –
1.1894]. A take profit will be at the breakthrough of today’s low.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 03.09.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Sell according to the pattern in  Additional Zone [1.1849 - 1.1844]. TakeProfit: 1.1798. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1904 - 1.1894]. TakeProfit: 1.1798. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 03.09.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_030920_1.png?w=30&s=147a19b31e04696b7330f4cbc9f47d3b
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_030920_2.png?w=30&s=b9e9b936a9eac08672baead1468abae9
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_030920_1.png?w=30&s=a5c3c9127a27567b56234de85b268caa
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_030920_2.png?w=30&s=5137228e2b120008e8944ac5c9f9283d
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_030920_1.png?w=30&s=bd9a328dc01bcc1a8901caf8c8f58a36
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_030920_2.png?w=30&s=58aaa6f44e08e2be02339bdc011dea36
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-03092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-03092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_149.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=46e3998decfe9b536543d6a7ea3f7263