+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-03"
description = "Fundamental and technical analysis of USDJPY"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Fundamental and technical analysis of USDJPY"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

September 3, 2020

September 3, 2020

Analysis of USDJPY and forecast for the Japanese yen’s priceMikhail
Hypov

In this article, we are examining the Japanese economy’s current state
and making a forecast for JPY against USD in the long and medium term.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Fundamental analysis of USDJPY

In my previous USD/JPY-related [article][1] I made a journey into the
[history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) of the Japanese economy’s development and formation.  I
recommend examining this question in detail if you’re planning to trade
actively in USDJPY. If you’ve already done that, you know that the
Japanese economy has been in a recession for a long time.

![LiteForex: Forecast for the Japanese yen: Fundamental and technical
analysis of USDJPY][2]

The chart above shows GDP monthly growth compared with the previous
period. Starting from the 90s, this indicator has been near zero,
dropping to the negative zone from time to time. Also, we see that the
current loss has already exceeded the year 2008’s loss.![LiteForex:
Forecast for the Japanese yen: Fundamental and technical analysis of
USDJPY][3]

The slump began at the end of 2019, even before the pandemic and the
crisis. It points to fundamental problems in the Japanese economy which
only grew worse during the crisis. The pandemic will be over sooner or
later, but the domestic negative factors will slow down the country’s
recovery and put pressure on the yen.![LiteForex: Forecast for the
Japanese yen: Fundamental and technical analysis of USDJPY][4]

The evolution of the Bank of Japan’s refinance rate is shown in the
chart above. We see that the value near zero was set in the 00s. The
rate moves to minus 0.1% in 2016, during Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
term. One of the peculiarities of his economic approach, called
“Abenomics”, is soft monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/).![LiteForex: Forecast for the
Japanese yen: Fundamental and technical analysis of USDJPY][5]

The Abenomics’ effect became even more so evident from 2012 to 2020. The
M2 money supply grew 40% during that period, as you can see in the chart
above. ![LiteForex: Forecast for the Japanese yen: Fundamental and
technical analysis of USDJPY][6]

Another chart above shows that the JPY index collapsed at that time.
Since 2016, its dynamics has been in a flat trend, but the latest crisis
and the money supply’s explosive growth will put a strong pressure on
its further development.

At the press conference on 28 August 2020 Shinzo Abe announced its
resignation related to health problems. Conspiracy theorists may note
it’s not his first resignation over the same reasons. Abe resigned in
2007 too, just on the eve of the economic crisis. Might Abe know
something and try avoiding responsibility for more severe economic
consequences?  Technical analysis will help us answer this question.
However, Yoshihide Suga, the likeliest candidate for the PM post, has
already said that Abe’s course will continue and the monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)
will remain soft. One of Abenomics’ priorities was, for example, raising
an inflation target to 2% a year.

![LiteForex: Forecast for the Japanese yen: Fundamental and technical
analysis of USDJPY][7]

As the chart above shows, that target was reached only once, in 2015.
Then the index would hardly rise above 1%. In the crisis circumstances,
hitting the target will be even more difficult and require serious work
of the BoJ’s printing press.

## Technical analysis

![LiteForex: Forecast for the Japanese yen: Fundamental and technical
analysis of USDJPY][8]

To make a forecast for USDJPY, let’s get back to the yen index. The
chart above shows that this indicator has been in a global bearish trend
since 2012. We see consolidation within the limits of this correction.
The bearish correction is very likely to continue as a zigzag wave
structure.![LiteForex: Forecast for the Japanese yen: Fundamental and
technical analysis of USDJPY][9]

Zooming in, we see that consolidation is inside a triangle. As the
bearish trend continues, this pattern’s breaking target is at around 75
points. Since the index has approached the pattern’s acute angle, a
breakout will take place no later than in 2022. The historic low being
at 79.5 points, the index won’t drop below this level in a positive
scenario. If the scenario is negative, there can be a movement to 68
points or 61.8% of wave A. Thus, whichever scenario the market may
choose, the general sentiment for the yen will stay bearish, which we
should consider when making a forecast for USDJPY.

## Correlation with DXY and JXY

Let’s compare the USD index and USDJPY. I have already made this kind of
comparison for [USDCHF][10] and [AUDUSD][11]. In both cases, there was a
strong correlation between the currency pair and the DXY index.

![LiteForex: Forecast for the Japanese yen: Fundamental and technical
analysis of USDJPY][12]

The chart above shows no correlation between USDJPY (blue line) and DXY
(red line). ![LiteForex: Forecast for the Japanese yen: Fundamental and
technical analysis of USDJPY][13]

However, USDJPY and the yen’s index JPY are interdependent.  The
correlation ratio is minus 1, which means these two instruments mirror
each other.

## Scenario for USDJPY for the next few years

## ![LiteForex: Forecast for the Japanese yen: Fundamental and technical
analysis of USDJPY][14]

If the correlation between JDY and [USDJPY ][15] remains negative, we
will see a strong impulse for the dollar/yen pair quite soon. At the
same time, the chart above shows that USDJPY triangle’s bottom is more
massive, so the breaking target will be at around  61.8% of wave A,
which corresponds to 68 points in the JDY index. ![LiteForex: Forecast
for the Japanese yen: Fundamental and technical analysis of USDJPY][16]

We see there are no reversal signals. Consolidation will most likely
continue next year. Strong support will be at 2020’s low at around
101.18 JPY. If the price moves above the level of 108.50 JPY and the
monthly candlestick closes at this level, consolidation will be
cancelled. If this level is broken, the target will be at 130 JPY.

## Forecast for USDJPY for 2020

## ![LiteForex: Forecast for the Japanese yen: Fundamental and technical
analysis of USDJPY][17]

Switching to the weekly chart, we see that  [USDJPY][15] is likely to
have rebounded to the triangle’s upper limit at 107.30 - 108 JPY  by the
end of 2021, with JXY dropping from the triangle’s upper line.

Besides the triangles, there are some other factors that confirm the
probability of a retracement:

  1. Accumulation of resistance levels for JPY, marked as a green area;
  2. USDJPY’s retracement from the support level at 104, marked with a violet line;
  3. Long shadow below formed at the end of July points to a strong buyer (marked with a green arrow).

## Forecast for September

## ![LiteForex: Forecast for the Japanese yen: Fundamental and technical
analysis of USDJPY][18]

A local consolidation in the form of a triangle is seen in the chart
above. The market is in a balance state, so the 2020 scenario doesn’t
seem to be so simple. The pair will most likely be located between
106.00 and 160.75 JPY in the first half of September: the triangle’s
upper edge and  monthly Pivot R1 / P levels pass between these values. A
breakout outside the triangle may happen already in December. The upward
breakout target will be at 109.50 JPY, the triangle’s bottom.  Given
potential strong resistance of the triangle’s edge, an estimated target
should be adjusted to 108.40 JPY.![LiteForex: Forecast for the Japanese
yen: Fundamental and technical analysis of USDJPY][19]

In that case, a trading plan will look like the following:

  1. Long position at 106 JPY, Pivot indicator’s P level
  2. Stop loss below S1 at 150.25 JPY
  3. Target 1:  107.26 JPY,  the vertical volume indicator’s control point
  4. Target 2 - 108.40 JPY, the triangle’s upper line 

The Profit/Risk ratio is about 3.

Trade period: September-October 2020

## Short-term scenario

## ![LiteForex: Forecast for the Japanese yen: Fundamental and technical
analysis of USDJPY][20]

Consolidation is likely to continue on the weekly time frame. I don’t
recommend trading a flat trend as high volatility and bad quality of
signals may play you a dirty trick. If you decide to risk, open a long
position as close as possible to the vertical volume indicator’s control
point at 106 JPY. Don’t close your position once the triangle’s upper
edge has been reached. Move stop loss to a breakeven level and wait for
a reversal signal. The pattern is likely to be broken. Average into the
position at 106.80 JPY in case of an upward breakout. I wouldn’t suggest
opening a short position at the retracement from the triangle’s edge as
stop loss is very likely to be triggered there.

Please take care of your money and observe your risk management rules.
Experiment on a [demo account][15], trade with real money,  and not the
other way round! Subscribe and keep in touch!

* * *

Good luck and profits, everyone!

Yours,

Michael @Hypov

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][21]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][22] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of USDJPY in real time mode

![Analysis of USDJPY and forecast for the Japanese yen’s price][23]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/usdjpy-fundamental-and-technical-analysis-short--medium--and-long-term-forecasts/
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.03/VVP_Yaponii_1.png?w=30&s=3ccb6c4932820b2ac96040db2115addf
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.03/VVP_Yaponii_2.jpg?w=30&s=b0d6b316d43b12e4d912093d60344cc4
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.03/Yaponiy_stavka_refinansirovaniya_3.jpg?w=30&s=0f6d819d77a7e53dec2df4bc71a2377b
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.03/M2_4.jpg?w=30&s=bf3259e968e21ff112741138712196b0
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.03/JXY_5.jpg?w=30&s=3239587159e2a3ac64c46a40d28c6318
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.03/stavka_inflyatsii_6.jpg?w=30&s=47b1bfce850ea0067b0fba9716a7c5bc
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.03/JXY_71.jpg?w=30&s=138e9986b0ec5ee6854f0453883c3811
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.03/JXY_7.jpg?w=30&s=402775aca20840b1f2d6ae8779106293
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/analysis-of-usdchf-and-forecast-for-the-swiss-francs-price/
   11. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/analysis-of-audusd-and-forecast-for-the-aud-price/
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.03/DXY_vs_USDJPY_8.jpg?w=30&s=7ad56138c2a48fe1d15588908dd684b3
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.03/JXY_vs_USDJPY_9.jpg?w=30&s=b7e3321c472c551733dafcd5c8b52f17
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.03/USDJPY_10.jpg?w=30&s=f1258fc3b6df4730fd93f22f22e08447
   15. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDJPY
   16. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.03/USDJPY_11.jpg?w=30&s=ee84c7427326a459c1764dd13f853013
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.03/USDJPY_12.jpg?w=30&s=4683c5214d9f1460ebf6651c233cab49
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.03/USDJPY_13.jpg?w=30&s=519200e6cae6c576bfd9021a001b4260
   19. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.03/USDJPY_14.jpg?w=30&s=1735edba12d9e3e204e22b47732c9519
   20. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.03/USDJPY_15.jpg?w=30&s=3da01421cc406e8959aa56dbab7be201
   21. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-of-usdjpy-and-forecast-for-the-japanese-yens-price&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   22. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-of-usdjpy-and-forecast-for-the-japanese-yens-price&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   23. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.03/USDJPY_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=8c0ffb657fcd4acac3b811a5bbd5e8b3