+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-11"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 11.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 11.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=18.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 11, 2020

June 11, 2020

Fed doesn’t want a weaker dollarDmitri Demidenko

## Jerome Powell’s dovish tone hasn’t supported the EUR/USD rally

The US strong jobs report for May should have encouraged the Fed to
demonstrate confidence in a soon rebound of the US economy after the
shock resulting from the pandemic. However, Jerome Powell did what he
should. The Fed’s chair didn’t make the mistake of the former central
bank’s presidents. During the Great Depression, the Fed did not provide
an extra stimulus, which resulted in the W-shaped economic recovery.
During the previous recession, the central bank suggested normalizing
the balance sheet too early, which send the S&P 500 28% down in March
2009, following its surge by 24% in January up from the low hit in
November.

“We’re not thinking about raising rates, we’re not even thinking about
thinking about raising rates”. All FOMC officials believe that the
federal funds rate will remain at level 0%-0.25% through the end of
2021. 15 out of 17 members believe interest rates to remain at zero
through 2022. The Fed’s projections emphasize that the US economy will
take a long time to recover. The US GDP should contract by 6.5% in 2020,
it will increase by 5% in 2021. The unemployment rate will be 5.5% in
2020, inflation – 1.7%, which is lower than the pre-crisis indicators.
The Fed seems to believe that the US economic recovery will be slow,
similar to the Nike logo when the downturn is first followed by a short
bounce back, however, then comes a long period of the economy moving
towards a trend.

Remarkably, the same is suggested by the OECD. It says most people see a
V-shaped recovery but it is going to stop halfway. The OECD suggests the
global economy will be 6% down in 2020, the US growth will contract by
7.3%, the euro-area economy will contract by 9.1%. Nonetheless, in 2021,
the US GDP will expand by 4.1%, the euro-area growth will be 6.5% up.

 **Dynamics of global GDP**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 11.06.2020][1]

 _Source: Financial Times_

 **GDP projections**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 11.06.2020][2]

 _Source: Financial Times_

I believe that, just as the S&P 500 is growing on expectations of
improved corporate earnings in the future, the [EUR/USD][3] rally should
continue due to the growth-gap between the euro area and the USA next
year. Jerome Powell could have fueled the situation and weigh on the
dollar if he had announced the Treasury yield control [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), but he
didn’t. The Fed decided to fix the monthly volume of Treasury purchases
and mortgage bonds at the levels of $80 billion and $40 billion. Its
interference in the debt market is gradually fading away. In late March,
the central bank was buying assets at a weekly pace of $375 billion, in
late April, it bought $50 billion per week, and in early June, the
central bank purchased $20 billion. The Fed probably believes that a
fixed volume of purchases will be enough to stop the increase in the
Treasury yields.

In general, The Fed has done what it should. Suggesting rather gloomy
projections, it left the door open for the further expansion of the
monetary stimulus. That is what financial markets need now. Unless there
are no strong shocks, like the second wave of COVID-19 or a new round of
trade wars, the S&P 500 may break through its all-time high already this
year. If so, the [EUR/USD][3] can well meet my [December forecast][4],
suggesting the pair be at 1.14 and 1.16 in the middle and at the end of
2020. It is still relevant to buy the euro on the corrections down.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Fed doesn’t want a weaker dollar][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/global-real-gbp-11-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=fd6845fb7ad0c4b9c766d1b964970b98
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/forecast-gbp-11-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=a363515af53eb4a79542379e8aa72b91
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/forex---2020-forecasts-and-outlook/
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=fed-doesnt-want-a-weaker-dollar&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=fed-doesnt-want-a-weaker-dollar&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-11-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=3242a8631863cb42f0eb26b5b63df3ed