+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-11"
description = "NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 26. Missing Waves and Emulations"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 26. Missing Waves and Emulations"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=18.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 9, 2020

June 11, 2020

NeoWave. Part 26. Missing Waves and EmulationsMikhail Hypov

## Missing Waves and Emulations. Definition. Variations. Properties.

Dear friends!

In the previous training articles, I covered the application of
channeling and Fibonacci relationships. This article will deal with the
last section in the NeoWave series, I will describe missing waves. I
will also write about patterns, which, in many ways, can imitate other
variations of wave patterns, not being authentic Elliott patterns.

If you are not familiar with the NeoWave theory, I recommend you to read
all the articles, starting from the first one, in the NeoWave series
based on Glenn Neely’s book Mastering Elliott Waves.

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][1].

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels. ][2]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][3]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][5]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][6].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][10].

[NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][11]

[NeoWave. Part 12. Impulsions and the rules to analyze impulse wave
patterns. ][12]

[NeoWave. Part 13. Corrections. Rules to identify a correction.][13]

[NeoWave. Part 14. Triangles. Rules to identify triangles.][14]

[NeoWave. Part 15. Basic and advanced rules of logic to analyze
triangles][15].

[NeoWave. Part 16. Extended rules of logic for Flats and Zigzags.][16]

[NeoWave. Part 17.][17][ ][17][Extended rules of logic for complex
corrective patterns.][17]

[NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance. Compaction
procedures. Power ratings.][18]

[NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels applied in trending impulses][19].

[NeoWave. Part 20. Application of progress labels to terminal
impulses.][20]

[NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships.][21]

[NeoWave. Part 22. Progress labels in flat corrections][22].

[NeoWave. Part 23. Progress labels in triangles.][23]

[NeoWave. Part 24. Progress labels in triangles and zigzags. ][24]

[NeoWave. Part 25. Fibonacci relations and correction identification
with channeling][25]

Before I go on, I want to stress that all the examples below are drawn
schematically, they are not real price charts. I suggest you find real
examples by yourself and share your discoveries in the comments.
Practical application of the information you learn is a very efficient
way to develop new skills. If you haven’t yet selected a trading
platform to practice your trading skills, register an account with
[LiteForex][26]. This is fast, easy, and free of charge.

### Where and when do missing waves occur?

The identification of missing waves plays an important role in the
analysis of short-term market action. You can witness missing waves when
the available data create a price action that falls between the monowave
and polywave stage of development. A missing wave is a wave that merges
with the surrounding segments of the pattern into a single monowave.
Missing waves occur only on a polywave scale. Missing waves can’t occur
on a multiwave scale or higher. Missing waves are most common in non-
standard complex corrective polywaves. They are also possible in Impulse
polywaves or in a formation when the market is preparing to make a
significant change in trend. A missing wave can be detected indirectly
based on the illogical integration of pattern implications and based on
the strange development of price behavior, which I will further
describe.

### How do missing waves occur?

As you already know from the previous educational articles all Elliott
patterns require a minimum number of monowaves to be correctly formed.
For example, an impulse polywave must contain at least five segments, it
can’t be formed with only four monowaves. A correction requires at least
three monowaves. To make a specific number of monowaves, you should have
a specific number of data points. Here is a listing of the minimum data
points for polywave patterns, so that a pattern can form without missing
waves:

  * Impulse wave – 8;
  * Triangle – 8;
  * Zigzag – 5;
  * Flat – 5;
  * Double flats and zigzags – 10;
  * Double combinations ending with triangles– 13;
  * Triple flats and zigzags – 15;
  * Triple combinations ending with zigzags– 18.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 26. Missing Waves and
Emulations][27]

As an example, the above [BTCUSD][28] chart roughly outlines a polywave
flat correction. Red dots mark data points that are the beginning and
the ending points of monowaves. Note that the beginning of the pattern
(zero point) is also taken into account. In our example, there six data
points, so the pattern meets the minimum requirements for the number of
points. I should note that the presence of the minimum number of data
points doesn’t mean that the missing wave is impossible here, it is just
less likely. Neely writes that for each additional data point above the
minimum, the chances increase geometrically that a missing _wave_ will
not be present. Once the number of data points reaches twice the minimum
level a missing __wave __should be considered impossible, as there will
be too many details that any wave could be missing. Any number of data
points below the minimum indicates a missing wave is a certainty if the
wave count is correct (the number of data points should be at least 50%
of the minimum requirements, otherwise the pattern will be so simple
that it will be on the register as a monowave).

Remember, you can suspect a missing wave when analyzing the waves using
the retracement rules. These rules are covered in the parts 3-11 in the
NeoWave series:

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][3]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][5]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][6].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][10].

[NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][11]



### Which patterns are susceptible to missing waves?

The most susceptible patterns to missing waves are complex corrective
polywaves __(corrections that involve x-waves). Almost without any
exceptions, the (X) will be the missing wave. This is due to the fact
that x-waves are almost always the smallest corrective waves of such
patterns. That is why they are more likely than other segments to be
missing. In more rare instances, impulsive polywave patterns that have a
1st or 5th wave extension can “miss” their smaller corrective phase. In
a 1st wave extension, it would be wave 4. In a 5th wave extension, the
missing wave would be wave 2.

### Emulation

An emulation occurs when one pattern (corrective or impulsive) is
imitating __the behavior of a pattern from the opposite class. Most
often, an emulation occurs on the short-term price action of a polywave.
When one pattern emulates another, it generally indicates the pattern is
“missing wave,”. Below, I will give a few examples of patterns emulating
the behavior of other Elliott patterns.

### Double Failure Emulation

This pattern can only fool you during its formation and for a short time
period of time after it is complete. Most often, a double failure can
temporarily mislead you into the assumption that a Triangle is forming.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 26. Missing Waves and
Emulations][29]

The above chart roughly outlines a double failure. It is emulating a
triangle at the stage of its formation. I marked the borders of a false
triangle with pink lines. You can identify this pattern at the stage of
the wave (D) formation. As it exceeds the highs of waves (A) and (B)
(the horizontal green and red lines), this pattern can’t be a triangle
(in a contracting triangle, only wave (E) has such a possibility. An
indirect clue can come from the application of Fibonacci relationships
if waves (A) and (C) do not relate by 61.8% as it is typical in
triangles. This signal may become a reason to suspect a false triangle
forming, but the final conclusion should be made only after the (D) wave
exceed the highs of waves (A) and (B).

### Double Flat Emulation

This pattern, if missing the (X) wave, could easily be mistaken for an
Impulse wave with a 3rd wave extension. There are a few clues the
pattern is a double flat:

  * There is no __alternation in time, price, or structure between waves (2) and (4). The rule means that two close waves of the same type (within the same pattern) should be different in price, time, and structure.
  * The supposed third extension is not more than 161.8% of the first wave. This signal means that the third wave is nor an extension. Therefore, the fifth wave should be an extension. If it doesn’t happen, the pattern can’t be an impulse.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 26. Missing Waves and
Emulations][30]

The above chart roughly outlines a double flat that looks like a
terminal impulse. Note that the supposed wave (2) is more than 61.8% of
the supposed wave (1). Besides, the supposed waves (2) and (4) are
similar in price, time, and structure. So, the alternation rule is not
observed.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 26. Missing Waves and
Emulations][31]

The supposed third extension is less than 161.8% of wave 1, and so, it
is not an extension. As the fifth wave is not also an extension (it is
less than the third wave in price), the pattern can’t be an impulse. So,
this is a double flat correction that emulates an impulse pattern. If
you witness a situation like the one shown in the chart, divide the
longest wave in half (the red circle in the chart). The halfway point
should be where a missing wave X occurred.

### Emulation that occurs in Double and Triple Zigzags and other
combinations starting with a zigzag

Wave (B) in the first zigzag should not retrace more than 61.8% of wave
(A). Like in the case with the double flat, a double zigzag can look
like an impulse with the third extension. However, in the case with a
zigzag, the alternation rule won’t work for waves (2) and (4). In some
cases, this signal could be the only signal that the pattern is
corrective. Besides, unlike double zigzags, impulses rarely channel
well.

An additional clue can be Fibonacci relations. The presumed 3rd
extension is only 161.8% or less of the presumed 1st wave. This should
not happen in a real Impulse pattern unless the 5th wave extends.
Another clue will not come until much later when the market retraces the
double zigzag by more than 61.8% of the total length of all its five
waves. This is normal for a corrective pattern.

Triple zigzags with missing X waves can emulate double zigzags, as
double zigzags emulate impulsions. There are should be the following
signals:

  * A triple zigzag will usually channel far too well to be considered an Impulse pattern;
  * The declining waves are too similar in price and time coverage leaving the market without an extended wave, which is mandatory for impulsive activity;
  * The action after the presumed 5th wave did not break the 2-4 trendline soon enough.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 26. Missing Waves and
Emulations][32]

The above [Bitcoin][28] chart roughly outlines a false impulse that can
be emulated by the double zigzag. Note that wave 2 of the presumed
impulse retraces 61.8% of wave (1). Waves (2) and (4) are similar in
price and time, so the alternation rule is not observed.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 26. Missing Waves and
Emulations][33]

As I have already written, impulses, unlike double and triple
combinations, impulses will hardly channel well. In our example, almost
all starting and ending points touch the channel lines. Besides, waves
(1), (2), and (3) are roughly equal. This means there are no extensions
in this pattern, so it can’t be an impulse.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 26. Missing Waves and
Emulations][34]

Taking into account the signals, I described above, we can conclude that
this is a double zigzag. Therefore, we divide the longest wave (the one
that looks like wave 3) in half and put a red circle at the halfway
point. This point should mark the place where the missing wave X
occurred. Here, I am about to end explaining the theoretical part of the
NeoWave theory. You should always apply all the theory to practice. Try
to discover the patterns containing missing waves, double and triple
flats, and zigzags. Mark with the reds the places where missing waves
occur. The LiteForex trade platform is very convenient and provides more
than enough [functions](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/basic-functions/). If you haven’t yet chosen your broker, it’s high
time you started trading with [LiteForex][35]. Besides, there is a
wonderful opportunity to win a dream house, a brand new car, and cool
Apple gadgets in the [dream draw][36] with the total prize fund of 350
000 USD.

In the next training article, I will demonstrate principles of the
market analysis using the NeoWave theory on examples. After that, you
can start trading using the NeoWave with  [LiteForex][35].

* * *

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][37]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][38] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





![NeoWave. Part 26. Missing Waves and Emulations][39]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b/
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a/
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-10-retracement-rule-6-conditions-b-c-and-d/
   11. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-11-retracement-rule-7/
   12. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-12-impulsions-and-the-rules-to-analyze-impulse-wave-patterns/
   13. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-13-corrections-rules-to-identify-a-correction/
   14. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-14-corrections-triangles-rules-to-identify-triangles/
   15. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-15-basic-and-advanced-rules-of-logic-to-analyze-triangles/
   16. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-16-extended-rules-of-logic-for-zigzags-and-flat-corrections/
   17. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-17-extended-rules-of-logic-for-complex-corrections-exceptions-to-the-rules-2020-05-07/
   18. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-18-rules-of-complexity-and-balance-compaction-procedures-power-ratings/
   19. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-19-progress-labels-and-application-of-progress-labels-to-trending-impulses/
   20. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-20-application-of-progress-labels-to-terminal-impulses/
   21. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-21-channeling-in-impulses-and-fibonacci-relationships/
   22. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-22-progress-labels-and-their-application-to-flat-corrections/
   23. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-23-progress-labels-and-their-application-to-triangles/
   24. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-24-progress-labels-in-triangles-and-zigzags/
   25. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-25-fibonacci-relations-and-correction-identification-with-channeling/
   26. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=currency
   27. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.07/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=b2bf191cde3626ff151b24325017a664
   28. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD&returnUrl=true
   29. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.07/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=3f0625b4454df490c6632b87028f43e8
   30. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.07/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=842876168dd8fde033738b5eebc66fe3
   31. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.07/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=d4133c16162f5931824c31050818240f
   32. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.07/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=f7bb50681b5ab2f2676eea55ad82b841
   33. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.07/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=57573f54435d0882eeee9e4050c1f8ed
   34. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.07/BTCUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=7b758db86a3572cadc891226870e7283
   35. my.liteforex.com/trading
   36. www.liteforex.com/contests/dream-draw/
   37. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-26-missing-waves-and-emulations&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   38. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-26-missing-waves-and-emulations&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   39. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.06.07/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=c8806b6770b42e1fd776e0ef99e69c60