+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-25"
description = "NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci relationships"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci relationships"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 25, 2020

May 25, 2020

NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationshipsMikhail Hypov

## Rules of channeling in impulse patterns under the NeoWave. Fibonacci
relationships extended by Glenn Neely

Dear friends!

In the [previous article][1], I covered the application of progress
labels to terminal impulses. This article will deal with the channeling
applied to different types of impulse patterns. I also cover the
Fibonacci relationships extended by Glenn Neely. I will also describe
two patterns that Glenn Neely discovered after the publication of his
book Mastering Elliot Waves.

If you are not familiar with the NeoWave theory, I recommend you to read
all the articles, starting from the first one, in the NeoWave series
based on Glenn Neely’s book Mastering Elliott Waves.

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][2].

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels. ][3]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][5]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][6]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][10].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][11].

[NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][12]

[NeoWave. Part 12. Impulsions and the rules to analyze impulse wave
patterns. ][13]

[NeoWave. Part 13. Corrections. Rules to identify a correction.][14]

[NeoWave. Part 14. Triangles. Rules to identify triangles.][15]

[NeoWave. Part 15. Basic and advanced rules of logic to analyze
triangles][16].

[NeoWave. Part 16. Extended rules of logic for Flats and Zigzags.][17]

[NeoWave. Part 17.][18][ ][18][Extended rules of logic for complex
corrective patterns.][18]

[NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance. Compaction
procedures. Power ratings.][19]

[NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels applied in trending impulses][20].

[NeoWave. Part 20. Application of progress labels to terminal impulses.
][1]

### Channeling

Channeling is an important step in the analysis of impulses. Remember, I
described channeling and the rules of channel construction in the
[article][21] devoted to the market wave theory by Robert Prechter. So,
in this article, devoted to Mastering Elliott Waves by Robert, I will
only remind key points of analyzing impulse waves using the channeling
technique, which is suggested in the NeoWave theory.

Channel borders are drawn across to pairs of points:

Unlike Prechter’s theory, the NeoWave theory doesn’t use classical
channels that are two parallel lines, between which the pattern being
studied is.

The construction of the main channel starts when the first wave of the
impulse is likely to have finished, and there is starting a correction
(wave 2). The line is drawn across the beginning of wave 1 and the end
of wave 2, which can first be marked at the first correction of the
complex corrective pattern.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][22]

The above chart displays the first channel line (yellow line). Next the
channel is built based on the zero level (the beginning of wave 1) and
the low of the corrective wave after the first wave (the expected end of
wave 2), which are marked with red circles in the chart. As I have
already written, the end of the second wave is often marked at the end
of its first segment. In our case, the first channel is constructed
wrongly. Neither wave 1 nor wave 3 mustn’t break it through. In other
cases, the wrong interpretation of the correction is noticed when the
following segments of wave 2 break through the channel border. You need
to expect until the next correction forms, after that correct the drawn
line.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][23]

In the chart, the pink line marks the corrected channel, drawn across
the next low. Presumably, at this phase of forming an impulse, it is
correct, as the line is not broken by the impulse wave, wave 2 is a
running flat. In some cases, for example, the channel borders could be
corrected if there is forming a triangle, a double or a triple
formation. The correction of the channel is made according to the same
principles.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][24]

When you find out that the third wave completed, and there is a low
after wave 3 that may be the end of wave 4, draw a new trendline across
the end of wave 2 and the assumed end of wave 4 (it is marked by the
yellow line in the chart, the 0-2 channel is marked by the pink line).

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][25]

Like in the previous example, after wave 4 completed, I have corrected
the 2-4 trendline, drawing it across the true end of wave 4 (it is
marked with the blue line in the above chart).

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][26]

In some parts of the chart, the 2-4 line is broken by the segments of
impulse waves. In some cases, it is acceptable. However, the price
should not move far from the channel borders.

### Breakout of the trendline after the impulse pattern completes

When the 5th wave of an impulse pattern has completed, a correctly drawn
2-4 trendline must __be broken during the time no longer than that it
took to form wave 5. If the break takes more time than wave 5, two
scenarios are possible:

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][27]

As an example, let us study one of the cases when the trend is broken
through. The blue line in the chart marks a trend, drawn across the ends
of waves 2 and 4. The green area marks the time consumed by wave 5 of
the impulse, the red area marks the time taken by the correction to
reach the 2-4 trendline. As you see, the red area is smaller than the
green one, and so, the trend line is drawn correctly, and the pattern
should be interpreted correctly.

### Impulse identification with channeling based on the wave extensions

To draw a real channel, in addition to the bottom border described
above, we need to draw the top line. In his book, Mastering Elliott
Wave, Glenn Neely offers several channeling techniques for impulse
patterns, depending on which wave is extended.

### 1st wave extension

In this case, the top border is usually drawn across the ends of waves 1
and 3. Besides, the 5th wave should not touch the upper trendline,
unless wave 2 is very large, featuring an intensive price action.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][28]

The above chart displays the trending impulse with the extended first
wave. Note that the channel drawn across waves 1-3 and 2-4 is getting
narrow, which is typical for the impulses with the extended first wave.
Besides, wave 5 breaks through the upper channel border, which is
acceptable when the second-wave price action down is intensive.

### Extended wave 3

When the third wave is extended, different points can be used to draw
trendlines. Besides, the channel lines should be parallel or close to
parallel, and the fifth wave won’t in most cases reach the upper
channel’s borders.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][29]

In most cases, the upper channel border touches the end of wave 1, being
parallel to the 2-4 line. Another case is when it is more logical to
draw the upper border across the ending points of waves 1 and 3. There
is a line that almost coincides with the lower channel border.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][30]

If waves 1 and 2 are very small, the upper channel border is drawn
across the end of wave 3, parallel to the 2-4 line.

### 5th wave extended

When the fifth wave in an impulse is extended, the channel is reverse of
1st wave extension. The 1-3 and 2-4 lines are diverging, rather than
converging. Besides, the fifth wave shouldn’t reach the upper border of
the channel.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][31]

The above chart displays the classical example of a channel with an
extended fifth wave. As you see, the trendlines are diverging, and the
fifth wave doesn’t reach the upper channel border.

### Double extension

Remember, the impulses with double extensions are extremely infrequent.
This pattern could be identified according to the following feature. The
third wave is more than 161.8% of the first wave, and the fifth wave is
more than 161.8% of the third wave. Channel in this case is built in the
same way, as before. The lower band is drawn across the ends of waves 2
and 4, and the upper one – across the ends of waves 1 and 3.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][32]

The chart schematically outlines an impulse where waves 3 and 5 are
extended. Note that the channel looks like the ones made by the impulses
with the fifth extension. So the trade target will be a little higher
than the upper band.

### Fibonacci relationships in impulses

Fibonacci relations are closely connected with the Elliott wave theory.
I have already covered this in the educational articles devoted to the
wave theories of Williams and Prechter. The full list of these articles
is below:

Glenn Neely in the NeoWave theory didn’t make any exceptions, and the
Fibonacci relations play a very important role in the theory. I already
wrote about wave relations when described retracement rules to identify
and verify the wave patterns, anticipate the post-effects. The relations
covered in those rules are strict.

Here, I will present a list of general rules concerning the Fibonacci
relations in the wave theory by Glenn Neely. Unlike the retracement
rules, these are not so strict. They rather give some room for
forecasting and building prediction models when the situation is not
clear, or when there not enough data to apply a particular rule.
Nonetheless, if any of the below points are not relevant for the
currently analyzed pattern, this won’t mean that the interpretation of
the market situation is wrong.

### Impulse patterns with the 1st wave extension

  * The third wave should not be more than 61.8% of the first wave.
  * When wave 3 is 61.8% of wave 1, then wave 5 is likely to be 38.2% of wave 3.
  * Sometimes, wave 3 can be 38.2% of wave 1. Then wave 5 will be 61.8% of wave 3.
  * The resistance level for the next growth wave can be calculated by adding 61.8% of the first wave’s length to its peak. Wave e may end at the level of 38.2% of the first wave’s high. But these situations are very rare and, as a rule, signal the weakness of the ongoing trend and also the possible completion of a larger impulse trend.

Let us see how some Fibonacci relations work on an example of the
impulse with the first wave extension, schematically outlined.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][33]

It is clear from the chart that wave 3 is 61.8% of wave 1.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][34]

Accordingly, wave 5 is about 38.2% of wave 3.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][35]

In our case, wave 3 ends at a level of 38.2% of wave 1. Remember, such
situations are extremely rare in practice and usually signal the
weakness of the current trend.

### Impulses with the 3rd wave extension

  * Wave 3 shouldn’t be less than 161.8% of wave 1. Waves 1 and 3 do not often relate by a particular ratio. Sometimes, wave 1 could be 38.2% of wave 3.
  * Waves 1 and 5 are usually nearly equal in price or related by 61.8% or 38.2% (in rare instances).
  * If wave 4 is a complex correction, wave 5 should be less than wave 1.
  * If wave 2 is a complex correction, wave 5 should be less or equal to wave 1.
  * If wave 1 is much less than wave 3 in time, wave 5 is likely to be 38.2% of the total length of the wave group 1-3.
  * Wave 5 should be less than 61.8% of wave 3.

Let us see which of the above extensions will work in a real impulse
with the 3rd wave extension.![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in
impulses and Fibonacci relationships][36]

Wave 3 should not be less than 161.8% of wave 1. In our case it is a
little more than 161.8% of wave 1.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][37]

Waves 1 and 5, according to the Fibonacci relations, are almost equal in
price.

### Impulses with the 5th wave extension

  * Wave 3 is often 161.8% of wave 1. A less likely situation is when wave 3 is 100% higher than the end of wave 1. Sometimes wave 3 may break through level 161.8%, added to the end of wave 1 (in such cases, it often ends within a 261.8% limit). In this case, wave 3 will be extended and is likely to exceed wave 5.
  * If there are no relations between waves 1 and 3, wave 3 should be between 100% and 261.8% of wave 1.
  * The extended fifth wave is often 161.8% of the total length covered by waves 1-3.
  * Wave-5 __should __be at least 100% of the length of waves 1+3 or _ ****_161.8% of wave 3, whichever is shorter. It can be as much as 261.8% of 1+3, but that is about the maximum limit for the length of a 5th-wave extension.

Let us see the Fibonacci relations that occur in impulses with the
extended fifth wave.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][38]

The above chart displays an example of an impulse the fifth wave
extension. You see that there are no relations between waves 1 and 3,
their lengths do not relate by any Fibonacci ratio.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][39]

Therefore, the third wave should be between 100% and 261.8% of wave 1.
In our case, it is 100%.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][40]

Wave Wave-5 __should __be at least 100% of the length of waves 1+3 or _
****_161.8% of wave 3, whichever is shorter. It is clear from the chart
that wave 5 is 100% of the total length of waves 1+3. In other words,
all the requirements are met.

### Waves 2 and 4

If the second wave is the largest price correction of the Impulse
pattern, wave 4 is likely to be 61.8% of wave 2. In rare cases, it could
be 38.2%. If wave 4 is the largest price correction, the rule works in
inverse order. Wave 2 should be 61.8% of wave 4, or, less likely, 38.2%.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][41]

The chart displays an impulse, whose wave 2 is the largest correction.
Wave 4 is 61.8% of the price covered by wave 2, which corresponds to the
above requirement.

That is all about the advanced Fibonacci relations discovered by Glenn
Neely. I suggest you check the rules on the example of impulse waves you
can discover in the price chart of [Bitcoin][42] or any other t[rading
instrument][43]. The [functions](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/basic-functions/) of the [LiteForex][42] browser terminal
are enough to carry out a thorough technical analysis. Do share the
results in the comments section! I will be glad to read about your
experience and answer any questions you have.

### Extra patterns discovered by Neely

After Glenn Neely had published his book Mastering Elliott Wave, he
discovered a few more wave patterns that are extremely rare to occur.

### Terminals with wave 3 extended

It is difficult to interpret this patter, it is one of the rarest
possible wave patterns. This pattern could be identified only after it
is complete, or near the completion. A third-extension terminal is often
mistaken for triangles.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][44]

I roughly outlined a third-extension terminal within a channel drawn
across points 1 and 3, 2, and 4. Note that wave 2 almost reaches a zero
level (the beginning of wave 1), wave 3 is extended and has a complex
structure. Another feature of this pattern is that wave 5 must break
through the upper border of the channel in a relatively short period of
time.

### 5th-failure terminals

It is one of the most difficult patterns to work with that is not always
correctly interpreted. These patterns are basically similar to the 3rd-
extensions patterns. The major difference is that waves 1,3 and 5
overlap each other, and the internal structure of the pattern’s segments
has a more corrective nature than impulsive.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][45]

The chart schematically outlines a fifth-failure terminal. Note that the
ends of waves 2 and 4 are at a roughly same level, so, the impulse waves
partially or fully overlap. Another important point is that the blue
horizontal line, linking the internal peaks of the third and the fourth
waves. It is a strong resistance level, where wave 5 of this impulse
often finishes.

Colleagues, I strongly recommend practicing this theory in real trading
to obtain a deeper insight. Based on my own experience, I test all
trading theories on the [demo][43] account, and next, on the real
account with LiteForex. Only after I have checked everything, I share
this information in my [blog][46]. I have been working this way for many
years already, and I think this algorithm to the most effective. The
trading platform also plays an important role. In this regard,
[LiteForex][43] perfectly suits. Furthermore,  [LiteForex][43] launches
a [draw of cool prizes][47] for all participants with the total prize
fund of 350 000 USD! There are a dream house, a brand new car, and cool
Apple gadgets among the prizes. Who of us will win a dream house?:)

This is all for today. The next article will cover flat corrections in
detail. I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][48]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][49] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships][50]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-20-application-of-progress-labels-to-terminal-impulses/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b/
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a/
   11. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-10-retracement-rule-6-conditions-b-c-and-d/
   12. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-11-retracement-rule-7/
   13. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-12-impulsions-and-the-rules-to-analyze-impulse-wave-patterns/
   14. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-13-corrections-rules-to-identify-a-correction/
   15. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-14-corrections-triangles-rules-to-identify-triangles/
   16. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-15-basic-and-advanced-rules-of-logic-to-analyze-triangles/
   17. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-16-extended-rules-of-logic-for-zigzags-and-flat-corrections/
   18. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-17-extended-rules-of-logic-for-complex-corrections-exceptions-to-the-rules-2020-05-07/
   19. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-18-rules-of-complexity-and-balance-compaction-procedures-power-ratings/
   20. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-19-progress-labels-and-application-of-progress-labels-to-trending-impulses/
   21. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/market-wave-theory-by-robert-prechter-part-2-wave-degrees-and-more-guidelines-of-wave-alternation/
   22. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=8b4d9fb1bf4e294321bd90a5f0efdab6
   23. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=c626e6b2f6a729457b1ed687c9f0ef53
   24. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=846f6c54d44c174c1fc9471106215006
   25. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=7236b34d50b71df4a4bcea875e8afb2b
   26. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=9a8ce0fda50209d887ffa90e10bd0812
   27. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=471424fa0d2f1ed4c27599aee836bb88
   28. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=1c057517c495c6ffcbc75a5b39a7e7b0
   29. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=2be851de3317dfda6ff1c7b93ac756e0
   30. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=f5cfa02006c59066b9a2d6a717e09635
   31. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_10.jpg?w=30&s=3e9f79d488f9d2182999f66b261c2fb3
   32. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_11.jpg?w=30&s=c5f43e6df29f56216cf6ce06c5949cea
   33. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_12.jpg?w=30&s=d27394c349b6df6d2cda1ab9d46afdac
   34. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_13.jpg?w=30&s=1184429abb87aa49691bbe1230cf2dd6
   35. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_14.jpg?w=30&s=0ff7287af8943bad0e43afee3e72b0b7
   36. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_15.jpg?w=30&s=daeb521849d448caaa8026c6f8144f05
   37. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_16.jpg?w=30&s=ec41f00524dfc2d5b2ab4270b92446ac
   38. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_17.jpg?w=30&s=058b9832db6377499806134f4f71eb2f
   39. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_18.jpg?w=30&s=ed03bceb5655f651e54ba8f465e96c75
   40. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_19.jpg?w=30&s=1c2419a4e16946e1710e388a08fd0621
   41. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_20.jpg?w=30&s=162b5815a879d4394b62984568070417
   42. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD&returnUrl=true
   43. my.liteforex.com/trading
   44. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_21.jpg?w=30&s=27f24da50271b6d65fcc4e8c4dd5c39a
   45. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_22.jpg?w=30&s=cf47ab5a2f57bcb5aba2c9a2c979742e
   46. www.liteforex.com/blog/?author=72&
   47. www.liteforex.com/contests/dream-draw/
   48. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-21-channeling-in-impulses-and-fibonacci-relationships&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   49. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-21-channeling-in-impulses-and-fibonacci-relationships&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   50. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.20/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=c2d82fca3b020bc6ae6f6c1948114ff1