+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-25"
description = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 25, 2020

May 25, 2020

Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysisRoman Onegin

## Forecast for BTCUSD, LTCUSD, ETHUSD, EOSUSD, XRPUSD pairs

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[BTCUSD][1]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][2]**

There is now developing the global corrective wave as a double zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]. Wave [W] is a plain zigzag A-B-C, linking wave [X] has not
yet finished. It should be developing as an upward double zigzag
(W)-(X)-(Y). There is now developing the final wave (Y). Let us see the
chart structure in more detail on the eight-hour timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][3]

After the linking down wave (X) finished as a double zigzag, there has
started the upward impulse wave A that begins the final bullish zigzag
(Y). In the A impulse, there have completed the sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3],
there is now developing corrective wave [4]. which should complete
around the previous low at 8040. Therefore, during this week, the price
should be declining to the indicated low. After that, the price should
be rising in impulse [5].

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[ETHUSD][4]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][5]**

The ETHUSD market is likely to be forming the down triple zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z], with the second linking wave [X] developing inside.
Wave [X] is developing as a double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y). Wave (W) is a
zigzag A-B-C, wave (X) is also a zigzag, and there is now developing the
final zigzag (Y). Let us see the structure of wave (Y) in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][6]

Impulse A has completed in the upward zigzag A-B-C. There is now
developing the down corrective wave B that is a double zigzag composed
of the sub-waves [W]-[X]-[Y]. After the sub-waves [W] and [X] completed,
the price has started declining in wave [Y]. Over the next few weeks,
the price should be declining towards a level of 174.84. This is the
previous low made by wave [W].

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[LTCUSD][7]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][8]**

Like other major cryptocurrencies, the LTCUSD market is forming the bear
triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. Wave [Z], currently unfolding, is a
simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). There has completed the (A) impulse, and
there is now developing the (B) correction. Let us see the chart
structure in more detail on the H8 timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][9]

The down corrective wave B is likely to be developing as a bear zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]. Wave [W] is a simple zigzag (a)-(b)-(c), the linking wave
[X] also looks complete. There is now developing the final zigzag [Y].
In the near future, the market could be declining in the (c) impulse to
a level of 37.70. After that, the price should turn up, and there will
start a new uptrend.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[EOSUSD][10]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][11]**

The EOSUSD market is forming a down triple zigzag, with the first three
segments, zigzags [W] and [Y], and the linking up-wave [X], completed
inside. There is now developing the second linking wave [X]. Let us see
its structure in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][12]

The linking wave [X] could be developing as a simple bullish zigzag
(A)-(B)-(C), where the first impulse wave (A) composed of the sub-waves
1-2-3-4-5 completed. After that, the market has started moving in the
corrective wave (B) that is developing as a double zigzag W-X-Y. Most
likely, the (B) correction will complete at level 2.26. Next, the price
can start rising.

* * *

###  **Wave analysis for[XRPUSD][13]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][14]**

The XRPUSD market situation is similar. There is now developing the down
triple zigzag, where the first three parts have completed, and there is
now developing the bullish linking wave [X] as a simple zigzag
(A)-(B)-(C). The upward impulse wave (A) completed, and the price has
started declining in the (B) correction. Let us see the chart in more
detail in the eight-hour timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][15]

After the upward impulse wave (A), composed of five sub-waves,
completed, the price has started declining in the corrective wave (B)
that consists of the sub-waves W-X-Y. The (B) correction should complete
around the previous low made by the W zigzag. After that, the market
could reverse and start rising in the new uptrend, as it is outlined in
the chart.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][16]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][17] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysis][18]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/25-05-2020X/BTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=f6963b0b2186c147ae7644dd9688f24a
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/25-05-2020X/BTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=07f54dd8b6c29289b8d3e1fc63bd6367
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/25-05-2020X/ETHUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=6a95ab23a44da93a131fdb651fb4cf80
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/25-05-2020X/ETHUSDH8.png?w=30&s=2702509f2710bb237089837553849082
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/25-05-2020X/LTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=a4cb40650177a62e76de59086705d3ea
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/25-05-2020X/LTCUSDH4.png?w=30&s=32a1f6ea38cc4d3edfb0d926a20b2ef3
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/25-05-2020X/EOSUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=a82caa2708a8fd6b5576db99adaadf17
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/25-05-2020X/EOSUSDH8.png?w=30&s=e8d0f9356057db0bc3308b9ec5509114
   13. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/25-05-2020X/XRPUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=eb48e855d6f7904d088bbad0ed96795a
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/25-05-2020X/XRPUSDH8.png?w=30&s=42be45b98c9983655fcf839eeb636a33
   16. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-05-25&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   17. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-05-25&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/1-elliott-waves-weekly-forecast-for-[BTC](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/who-is-the-creator-of-bitcoin/)usd-ethusd-ltcusd-eosusd-xrpusd_1000x545.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1480cfce2406c81b57be8a77076342f1