+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-20"
description = "Euro price forecast 20 April 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 20 April 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-20

2021-04-20

Euro is catching up. Forecast as of 20.04.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Slow vaccination in the euro area discouraged the euro buyers. However,
investment ideas, popular in late 2020, are coming back this April. The
EU governments accelerate the vaccination rollouts. Let us discuss the
Forex outlook and make up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Fundamental euro forecast for six months

This cannot be, because it cannot be! That is what a racer thinks when
he/she sees in the rear-view mirror a competitor whom he/she seemed to
have outrun enough to forget about. The EU is increasing the vaccination
speed, the German bond yields are catching up with the US peers, and the
euro is strengthening. As a result, banks upgrade their forecasts for
the [EURUSD][1], [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) market signals higher risk reversals, being
evidence of the euro bullish sentiment.

The euro should not have been strengthening as the euro area must face a
double-dip recession, the European economies are locked down, and the
share of the EU population received at least one dose of COVID-19
vaccine is 25.1% compared to 63.2 % in the USA. Nonetheless, the markets
are not interested in the cooling dish, serve it hot. They do not want
to buy the past, being interested in the future. The increase in the
vaccination rate in Europe will return the trading ideas that were
popular in late 2020. Yes, the USA is the locomotive of global economic
growth in 2021, but it supports the rest of the world.

In this regard, the information that Pfizer will increase the supply of
vaccines to the European Union by 100 million doses was enough to push
the [EURUSD][1] up to 1.206. Goldman Sachs expects the largest four
countries in the eurozone to vaccinate 37% of their population by the
end of May, and this figure will be up to 54% in a month. As a result,
the bank raised its forecast for the euro from $1.21 to $1.25 by the end
of December.

The vaccination speed directly affects the opening up of the economy and
the rate of its recovery. Accordingly, it also determines the bond
yields. The Treasury yield growth in 2021 has significantly exceeded the
German bond yields. However, the gap starts narrowing, encouraging the
[EURUSD][1] bulls.

### Dynamics of government bond yields in Germany and USA



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

An important [EURUSD][1] growth driver is the return of faith in the
euro. Since the beginning of 2021, hedge funds have reduced the euro
longs down to annual lows, while Bloomberg experts have downgraded their
forecasts for the euro-dollar. The latest consensus estimate suggests
that [EURUSD][1] will rise to 1.22, although back in January most of
them suggested 1.25. Due to the slow vaccination and the success of the
US economy, the euro was weakening, but Forex is not a place where you
can lose it in one day and not be able to recover for years. Investor
sentiment is rapidly changing, and in April, the dollar finally saw its
main rival in the rearview mirror.

### [EURUSD][1] trading plan for six months

It is pleasant when investment ideas work out. I have many times written
that the Forex situation should radically change in April, compared to
March. I [recommended][2] entering the [EURUSD][1] longs on the breakout
of the resistance at 1.1935 with targets at 1.204 and 1.208. The first
target has already been achieved, the second one should soon be reached
too. I suppose the euro will reach $1.25 in 2021, so it is relevant to
buy.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-believes-the-fed-forecast-as-of-14042021/