+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-19"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 19.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 19.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 19, 2020

August 19, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 19.08.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

WTI oil is trading in the middle-term uptrend with an upside target at
Target Zone 6 [49.17 - 48.42]. I recommend entering purchases according
to the pattern in the broken-out TZ5 and in the key support zone [37.23
– 36.61], if the price reaches it in the correction.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 19.08.2020][1]

The short-tern uptrend is held back by the resistance [42.70 – 42.55].
It is clear from the chart that buyers have been failing to break it out
and consolidate the price above for six days. Today is the seventh day.

As long as the price is under the resistance, and it has been failing to
break it out for a long time, I suggest entering sell trades in the
correction. To sell, we need a sell pattern or the breakout of the
trendline that is displayed in the screenshot below. The sell target
will be Intermediary Zone [40.33 – 40.02].

It will be relevant to buy oil when the price breaks out Additional Zone
and consolidates above the level. The entry point will be at the zone
retest, and the upside target will Gold Zone 5 [45.04 — 44.67].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 19.08.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:**

Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [42.70 - 42.55].
TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [40.33 - 40.02]. StopLoss: according to
the pattern.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

The gold price has broken out the key resistance of the middle-term
downtrend [1957.9 – 1949.2], and the price has been consolidated above
at the two US sessions. The gold middle-term trend is again up.

However, it is yet too early to buy gold at the current levels. I
suggest we explore the shorter timeframe and detail the entry point
there.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 19.08.2020][4]

The gold short-term trend is up. Within this trend, the price broke out
Target Zone [1957.9 - 1949.2] and Gold Zone [1997.0 – 1992.7]. The
upside target is now Target Zone 2 [2051.5 – 2042.2].

The price is now being corrected down and testing the strong support
Additional Zone [1992.2 - 1989.9]. I suggest entering purchases in the
zone according to the pattern. If the support is broken out, we shall
sell gold in the correction with a downside target in Intermediary Zone
[1969.0 – 1964.3].

If IZ is reached by the price, we shall first enter buy trades. If it is
broken out, we shall sell gold down to the lower Target Zone [1922.4 —
1913.1].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 19.08.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1992.2 - 1989.9]. TakeProfit: 2015.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. If the price breaks out Additional Zone [1992.2 — 1989.9], sell on the retest. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1969.0 - 1964.3]. StopLoss: above the next local high.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The US session closed the price above Target Zone 4 [1.1914 – 1.1896]
yesterday. If the trade session closes the price above the resistance
once again, we shall consider the zone to be broken out. If so, the next
upside target will in the middle-term uptrend will be Target Zone 5
[1.2096 — 1.2078].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 19.08.2020][7]

Let us switch to a shorter timeframe and analyze the short-term trend.
It is clear from the chart that the euro short-term trend is up. Buyers
broke out Target Zone [1.1911 - 1.1893] yesterday. The next buy target
is Gold Zone [1.1993 – 1.1984].

The EURUSD was yesterday corrected down to Additional Zone [1.1920 –
1.1915]. I recommend, today, entering buy trades in this zone according
to the pattern with the target in Gold Zone.

The trend key support is in the zone of Gold Zone.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 19.08.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1920 - 1.1915]. TakeProfit: Gold Zone [1.1993 - 1.1984]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1874 - 1.1865]. TakeProfit: 1.1963. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 19.08.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_190820_1.png?w=30&s=2f1733bbeb98e9683b3f86b25c63831c
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_190820_2.png?w=30&s=3be9605a3ca0389b8e849383d2f79fe4
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_190820_1.png?w=30&s=9fd2332c3085e3d2112566ae42fae0dc
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_190820_2.png?w=30&s=d32efb4edac04faaf64af6bdba038d70
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_190820_1.png?w=30&s=0b9f42b150dea9adc856d23d94858c4c
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_190820_2.png?w=30&s=f539edae3aefd45383bc901e69a3ca52
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-19082020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-19082020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_102.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=990f7bbae617839d43e4d0d1ffc39547