+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-19"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 19.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 19.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 19, 2020

August 19, 2020

EUR/USD forecast: bulls won’t let the euro burstDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental Euro forecast for today  ****

### Which bubble is bigger? The stock or the Forex market?

Market bubbles suggest rapidly rising prices, which attract the buyer
hoping to earn quick money. Such buyers do not express due diligence or
worry about the long-term prospects of what they buy. They ignore
standard gauges as irrelevant, and the bubble goes bigger through cheap
money. It looks familiar, doesn’t it? The rallies of the US stock
indexes and the [EUR/USD][1] more and more look like a bubble. The
bulls, however, do not let it burst.

It took [S&P500][2] just 126 trading days to go back to February highs
and hit a new record high. It is the fastest stocks rally after the bear
market, which, by the way, had lasted for 33 days, with an average value
of 302 of the previous 22 downtrends since the 1920s. Besides, the P/E
of the stocks included in the index is 22.6. It is the highest value
since the dot-com crisis. But the standard gauges are ignored in
bubbles, aren’t they? The market is far from reality. The US economic
state is hardly the same as it was in February.

The [S&P500 ][2]rally has, for a long time, supported the [EUR/USD][1]
bulls, but, now, they have different drivers. The stock indexes are
growing amid the Fed’s support, which the euro is strengthening because
of the GDP growth gap between the euro-area and the US. Remarkably, the
volatility of the equity market and the Forex are now diverging. The US
stocks are growing because of the cheap liquidity; the currency market
is currently pricing the risks of the possibilities of the COVID-19
second wave in the euro area, the presidential election in the US, and
the escalation of trade wars.

### Dynamics of Forex and stock volatility

 _![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 19.08.2020][3]_

_Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The [EUR/USD][1] rally may also look like a bubble. The net longs on the
euro held by the asset managers are the highest ever. The euro-area
economy was hit by the pandemic stronger than the US, and the yields on
the European securities is still low. After all, everything is relative.
While Steven Mnuchin claims that the negotiations between the Democrats
and the republicans are stalled, the EU governments are quick to
implement mitigation measures. The spread between US and German real
yields is as narrow as it was in 2014 last time. The appeal of the US
securities is falling, and that of the euro-area assets is growing.
Isn’t it a reason to buy the euro?

###  **Dynamics of the spread between US and German real yields**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 19.08.2020][4]

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

According to Scotiabank, speculative dollar shorts are not excessive;
they haven’t reached the level of 2017. The market has just started
shorting on the greenback, so there is room to open more shorts. Société
Générale notes, the US dollar’s rate, in real [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/), is still 25% higher
than the levels of 2011, and the Fed is still willing to depreciate the
dollar. Is the [EUR/USD][1] a bubble? I do not think so. My strategy is
to hold the euro longs and add up on the price falls. While the price is
above 1.183, bulls control the market.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![EUR/USD forecast: bulls won’t let the euro burst][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/volatility-19-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=a6f1b796a5cc02e5c8b974b43b684383
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/spreed-yields-19-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=3f8622f797f497a40ff99fafcef66e20
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-bulls-wont-let-euro-burst&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-bulls-wont-let-euro-burst&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-19-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=8e5ba2d71b26447a50479c8720f74690