+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-08"
description = "Japanese Yen price forecast 8 March 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Japanese Yen price forecast 8 March 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=10.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-08

2021-03-08

Yen shows the white flag. Forecast as of 08.03.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The rapid growth of US Treasury bond yields has finally distributed the
roles in Forex. The Japanese yen and the Swiss franc are the main
outsiders in the market. How far can the [USDJPY][1] rally go? Let us
discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Monthly Japanese yen fundamental forecast

In any market, as in life, there are winners and losers. Commodity
currencies still somehow resist the US dollar influence, thanks to oil
and other raw materials, while the currencies with low-interest rates
have to capitulate to $. The Japanese yen and the Swiss franc bear the
brunt of the greenback strengthening caused by Treasury yields' growth.
Judging by the positioning in the derivatives market, the [USDJPY][1]
rally's potential is far from exhausted

The theory of the dollar smile is being implemented on Forex right now.
At the first stage, in March 2020, the USD index rose rapidly to 3-year
highs amid awareness of the pandemic threat. At the second, in March-
January, it collapsed by 13% due to the Fed's large-scale monetary
stimulus. The first week of March turned out to be the best for the US
dollar since September. So, the obvious question arises: is it entering
the third stage? When does the greenback start to strengthen against
competitors due to the faster economic growth?

According to Oxford Economics, global GDP will grow by 6% in 2021. This
will be possible thanks to the United States and China. The US
contribution to the global economic recovery will be more significant
than that of China, which has not happened since 2005. According to
Goldman Sachs estimates, the US GDP will expand by 7%, while China's -
by 7%. However, the US economy will become the growth driver of world
GDP since it is one-third larger than its main competitor.

### The role of the US and China in the global economic recovery



 _Source: Wall Street Journal._

According to Bloomberg research, if Congress approves Joe Biden's fiscal
stimulus of $1.9 trillion, US GDP will increase by more than 7% in 2021.
JP Morgan expects the indicator to reach pre-crisis levels by the middle
of this year. Thus, the faster rate of US economic growth compared to
its global and developed countries' counterparts indicates the
continuation of the USD index rally. At least in the short term.

### Dynamics of the USD index and the ratio of the US economic growth to
the rest of the G9 countries

 _Source: Nordea Markets._

As a result, [USDJPY][1] bears have been hit by a double blow. First, by
the growth of Treasury bond yields against the background of the Bank of
Japan's intention to keep local debt rates at a low level by all means.
Second, by the US dollar strengthening. At the same time, if hedge funds
are actively adding up to short positions in the Japanese currency (from
789 to 12129 contracts in the week to March 2), then asset managers
retained net long positions in the amount of 60162 contracts. They have
room to decline, which creates preconditions for the continued rally of
the USDJPY pair.

### Monthly [USDJPY][1] trading plan

In my opinion, the target of 110 for [USDJPY][1] set [in the previous
article][2] will be reached before the end of March. I don't think the
10-year Treasury yield will stop at 1.75%. It is more likely to rise
above 2%. In any case, the yen, as I have repeatedly [said][3] this
year, will remain the Forex outsider, and the dollar can well go up to
¥112-113. I recommend buying the yen.



## Price chart of USDJPY in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDJPY&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/central-banks-reached-an-impasse-forecast-as-of-02032021/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/japanese-yen-from-favorites-to-outsiders-forecast-as-of-18012021/