+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-08"
description = "US dollar price forecast 8 March 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 8 March 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-08

2021-03-08

Dollar is a tough nut to crack. Forecast as of 08.03.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

A strong reading of the US jobs report for February results in a new
wave of sell-offs of the US treasuries and the EURUSD. Is the euro
uptrend broken? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a
[EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

Jerome Powell is a tough nut to crack. The US bond market continues to
test the Fed’s strength. A strong report on the US employment for
February has sent the Treasury yield above 1.6%, the highest level since
February 2020, strengthening the US dollar. The [EURUSD][1] rate went
down in a momentum below 1.9. Only the [S&P 500][2] price rise prevented
the euro bears from driving the price lower.

Investors wonder if the Treasury yields are high enough to encourage the
Fed to take active steps. The US unemployment rate in February was down
to 6.2%, nonfarm payrolls added 379,000 new jobs, and the January data
have been revised up. Therefore, the Fed should start speaking about
monetary normalization. On the other hand, there are 9.5 million fewer
jobs in the United States than before the pandemic. The labor market has
a long way to recover, and the Fed prioritizes financial conditions when
making decisions. The financial conditions in the US suggest that the
Fed could still remain passive for a long time.

### Dynamics of financial conditions and 10-year Treasury yield

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The latest Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show that the US
bond market faced the worst sell-off ever in the week ended March 2.
Nonprofit traders were exiting long positions at a record pace.
According to TD Securities, net longs fell by $ 45 billion. As 10-year
Treasury yield increased by 45 bps, the US equity market capitalization
decreased by $ 4 trillion from its high in mid-February.

The increased popularity of the US assets and the growing demand for the
greenback as a safe-haven encourage the [EURUSD][1] bears to go ahead.
Based on the differences in the interest swap market, the euro is
considerably overvalued against the US dollar.

###  **Dynamics of[EURUSD][1] and interest swaps difference **



 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

It seems the euro uptrend has reversed down. However, I still believe
the [EURUSD][1] bulls will regain the impulse because of the strength of
the US and Chinese economies and the acceleration of vaccinations in the
EU. Even if the euro resumes the uptrend later than previously expected,
the second quarter may be radically different from the first.
Indirectly, the change in the balance of power in the April-June quarter
is indicated by the growth of US imports of goods and services by 1.2%
MoM in January and the record expansion of Chinese exports in February.
Furthermore, the US and the EU decided to suspend import tariffs in the
Airbus-Boeing case.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

After all, the US dollar is the Forex winner as of now. The greenback
growth is especially strong against the non-commodity currencies. By and
large, traders should enter short-term sell trades as the [EURUSD][1]
bulls failed to consolidate the price above the resistance levels of
1.1935 and 1.1975.



The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true