+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-20"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (20 October 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (20 October 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-10-20

2021-10-20

Short-term analysis for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 20.10.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Yesterday, gold traders tested the Intermediary Zone 1780 - 1779.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Yesterday, traders entered both oil purchases and sales. As a result,
the Gold Zone 82.64 - 82.38 was tested again. The price is now falling
and the support zone 81.85 - 81.13 is being tested in the
beforementioned GZ.

While the price is trading between the resistance and the support zone,
I recommend taking a wait-and-see position. If the Gold Zone is broken
out upside and the price consolidates above it, then consider purchases
with the target at the Target Zone 2 85.44 - 84.93.

If the support level of 81.13 is broken out downside, then the
Intermediary Zone 80.57 - 80.32 will be reached immediately. If the
Intermediary Zone is broken out, then the short-term trend will reverse
down. In this case, look for sales with the target at the lower Target
Zone 78.02 - 77.51.

###

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

Watch the market.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Yesterday, gold traders tested the Intermediary Zone 1780 - 1779. The
zone was held. As a result, a strong downward impulse occurred. However,
now the price is rising again and is approaching the Intermediary Zone.

The IZ serves as the short-term downtrend's key resistance. Until it is
broken out, I recommend looking for a sell pattern with the target at
level 1761.

As soon as the traders manage to break out the Intermediary Zone and
consolidate the price higher at the US trading session, the short-term
trend will reverse up. In this case, look for long trades with the
target in the upper Target Zone 1801 - 1797.

###

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone 1780 - 1779.
TakeProfit: 1761. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Yesterday, the short-term euro trend reversed up. The Intermediary Zone
1.1621 - 1.1612 was broken out. Today, the upper Target Zone 1.1718 -
1.1700 serves as the target for purchases.

After the Intermediary Zone breakout yesterday, the price corrected and
approached the Additional Zone 1.1625 - 1.1620. Look for purchases
within an uptrend near the Additional Zone with the first target in the
zone of ​​yesterday's high.

If the Additional Zone is broken out downside, expect a deeper
correction to the Intermediary Zone 1.1581 - 1.1572. Look for purchases
according to the pattern with the same targets in the IZ.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone 1.1625 - 1.1620.
TakeProfit: 1.1666. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-20102021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-20102021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus