+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-30"
description = "US dollar price forecast 30 April 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 30 April 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-30

2021-04-30

Dollar: a losing streak continues. Forecast as of 30.04.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

Financial market sentiment changes frequently. The Treasury yields rally
will hardly support the greenback as it did in March. However, the euro
bears could obtain a new advantage in May. Let us discuss the Forex
outlook and make up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Monthly US dollar fundamental forecast

The US strong domestic data have at last led to what it should have led,
to an increase in the Treasury yields! However, unlike in March when the
US bond yields rally supported the US dollar, the greenback is not
rising currently. The USD is to close in the red for the fourth
consecutive week, the longest losing streak since the July recession.

Thanks to rapid vaccinations and massive fiscal and monetary stimuli,
the US economy expanded 6.4% in January-March compared to the same
period in 2020, which was its best growth since 1984. The growth rate
was 1.6% up compared to the previous quarter. The US GDP is only 1%
short of the pre-crisis high, and few doubt that the indicator will
fully recover in April-June. Moreover, Joe Biden continues to support
the economy with money. The $1.9 trillion stimulus adopted by Congress
was followed by another $2.25 trillion plan for infrastructure and $1.8
trillion for social support.

### Dynamics of consumer spending and US GDP

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The unprecedented speed and scale of the PMI contraction and the
enormous amounts of aid provided by the Fed and the White House make the
latest recession unique. China managed to avoid a recession; the United
States was able to restore its GDP quickly. Still, at present, they are
losing their exclusivity, which is evident from the exchange rates of
the yuan and the US dollar. The EU is starting to accelerate
vaccinations, and economic growth is starting to synchronize. The latter
is confirmed by the reaction of the global debt market to the release of
US GDP data for the first quarter. The yields on not only US bonds have
grown, but also European ones! German 10-year yields have reached their
highest levels since March 2020.

The greenback has lost its old benefit, but there could be a new growth
driver in May. According to Dow Jones Market Data, the [S&P 500][2] has
risen 11% during President Biden’s first 100 days in office. The index
recorded its strongest performance since the start of Mr. Roosevelt’s
first term in 1933. By comparison, the [S&P 500][2] rose 5.3% in the
first 100 days of President Donald Trump’s term, and on average, has
gained 3.2% over that period in presidential [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) since 1929. The
easing of the pandemic, at least in the US, and the colossal stimulus
create a situation where it is difficult to be a bear on stocks.
However, many tech stocks are overvalued, and rising Treasury yields
could lead to a correction in the [S&P 500][2] and lure [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s back
to the US dollar.

### Monthly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

In my opinion, the correction of stock indexes amid a potential rise in
the Treasury yields is the main risk factor for the [EURUSD][1] bulls.
Of course, the euro uptrend will hardly reverse, but no assets could be
falling indefinitely. Neither can the greenback go down all the time, as
a strong US economy backs up the US currency. If the euro fails to
consolidate above $1.209 and $1.206, one could consider short-term sell
trades. However, plenty of traders are willing to buy the [EURUSD][1],
so be prepared to exit shorts any time.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true