+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-11"
description = "US dollar price forecast 11 May 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 11 May 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-05-11

2021-05-11

Dollar and the freedom of choice. Forecast as of 11.05.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

People have the right to choose where to invest their money. However, to
make a wise decision, one should take into account the Fed’s position.
The US central bank is concerned about US employment and inflation, so
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are focused on the CPI. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and
make up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

Western countries show off their democracies, but governments could
forget about them as soon as democratic principles become an obstacle.
Boris Johnson denies the people of Scotland the right to self-
determination, calling the idea of ​​a referendum on independence
absurd. Spain, Italy, and France impose restrictions on the purchase of
bonds by hedge funds at auctions, trying to prevent the bond yields
growth. Joe Biden argues that those unemployed Americans who have been
offered vacancies must accept them; otherwise, they risk losing
unemployment benefits. But what about freedom of choice?

Due to the disappointing US April jobs report, discussions about the
impact of the massive fiscal stimulus on the economy intensified. The
opponents of the stimulus previously focused on the growing national
debt; now, they point out the obstacles to the economy, as the
unemployed could stay at home receiving benefits and not filling
vacancies. The supporters of fiscal assistance programs stress that it
was clear from the beginning that things would not be easy. Without this
money, the economy would not have been able to rebound. Even Joe Biden
has to admit the problem. Along with the statement on the obligation to
accept the proposed job, the President noted that the requirement should
be reinstated, according to which people receiving unemployment benefits
must prove that they are actively looking for jobs.

Fiscal incentives are not the only problem of US employment. Mobility
restrictions and fear of COVID-19 are preventing Americans from filling
jobs and forcing employers to raise wages. The government’s latest
employment cost index, a quarterly measure of compensation, showed wages
in the private sector climbed in the first quarter by the most in 18
years. Furthermore, the cost of raw materials due to supply problems
increased, suggesting higher risks of inflation acceleration. US factory
wait times for materials and supplies are the longest in records to
1987.

### Dynamics of wages and salaries in US private sector

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

### Dynamics of wait time for production materials and supplies

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Investors’ focus switches from employment to US inflation. The concerns
about inflation rise to 3.6% in April, makes the bulls on the [S&P
500][2] and the [EURUSD][1] exit longs, resulting in corrections.
According to research by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, household
expectations regarding price increases over the horizon of one year
jumped from 3.2% to 3.4%; over the horizon of three years, they remained
unchanged at 3.1%. But what if the rise in inflation does not turn out
to be temporary, as the Fed claims, but is of a long-term nature? The
central bank may have to tighten monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) sooner than financial
markets anticipate, which will press down stock indexes and discourage
greenback sellers.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

I believe the Fed won’t make hasty decisions based only on the consumer
prices report. Weak US jobs report discouraged the FOMC hawks. Even if
the US inflation in April rises, it will provide a chance to buy the
[EURUSD][1] at a lower price. It will be relevant to enter longs when
the price rebounds from the supports at 1.211 and 1.2085.





The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true