+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-03"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (3 December 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (3 December 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-03

2020-12-03

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 03.12.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The euro has consolidated above Target Zone 2 [1.2032 – 1.2012]. The
next growth target is Target Zone 3 [1.2232 - 1.2212].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil price is being corrected down in the medium-term uptrend. The next
support is in the zone of [43.00 – 42.80]. A little lower, there is the
trend key support. I recommend buying oil on the correction down to
these support zones according to the patterns.

The short-term trend is up; however, the H1 chart shows that the price
is being corrected down. Oil price yesterday approached the trend key
support [43.70 - 43.46], which triggered a powerful buy momentum. The
momentum has stopped in the resistance zone [45.09 – 44.97].

One could enter intraday sell trades in the resistance level with a
target to break through yesterday’s low. To sell, we need a pattern,
1-2-3, for example.

If the price doesn’t draw a sell pattern, and the market breaks out
Additional Zone, we shall find an entry point on the correction to buy
oil with a target at Gold Zone [47.38 — 47.14].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [45.09 - 44.97]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [43.70 - 43.46]. StopLoss:according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [43.70 - 43.46]. TakeProfit: 46.03, Gold Zone [47.38 - 47.14]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold price is being corrected following a strong drop and the breakout
of Target Zone 2 [1829.4 – 1820.1]. The downtrend continues. It is
relevant to sell at good prices.

Good prices are in the zone of [1890.0 – 1850]. In this zone, we could
enter a sell trade with a target to break through November's low.

The gold price reached Intermediary Zone [1827.5 – 1821.8] and formed a
buy pattern yesterday in the shorter timeframe.

There isn’t a sell pattern in the zone. So, I suggest entering a long
trade on the correction to the zone of [1808.5 – 1800.3] with the target
to break through the local high. In this case, there will be a false
breakout pattern.

If the US session closes above IZ, it will confirm the trading idea to
buy gold.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to a false breakout pattern in the zone of [1808.5 -
1800.3]. TakeProfit: 1836.5. StopLoss: 1795.0.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro-dollar has consolidated above Target Zone 2 [1.2032 – 1.2012].
The next upside target is Target Zone 3 [1.2232 – 1.2212].

The trend key support and the zone of good buy prices form the larger
price area where we shall look for a buy pattern; this is the zone of
[1.1941 — 1.1892].

Let us switch to the shorter timeframe and analyze the short-term trend.
The EURUSD trend is up. The price tested Additional Zone [1.2041 -
1.2037] and reached Gold Zone [1.2105 – 1.2093] yesterday.

The traders haven’t consolidated the price above GZ. We shall see where
the price closes at the US session today. If the trade session closes
the price above the resistance, the next target will be Target Zone 2
[1.2232 – 1.2209].

Anyway, enter buy trades on the correction. Strong support levels today
are: Additional Zone [1.2079 - 1.2074], Intermediary Zone [1.2033 —
1.2024].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.2079 - 1.2074]. TakeProfit: 1.2124. StopLoss: according to the pattern

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.2033 - 1.2024]. TakeProfit: 1.2124. StopLoss: according to the pattern

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-02122020-2020-12-03&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-02122020-2020-12-03&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus