+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-28"
description = "An overview of Elliott Wave patterns based on NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely, triangles."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "An overview of Elliott Wave patterns based on NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely, triangles."
type = "post"
+++

April 28, 2020

April 28, 2020

NeoWave. Part 14. Corrections. Triangles. Rules to identify
triangles.Mikhail Hypov

## NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Triangle patterns. Variations of
triangles, and the requirements to identify triangles

Dear friends!

In the [previous training article][1], I covered flats and zigzags,
their variations, and construction rules. If you haven’t read the
previous articles in the NeoWave series, I recommend covering all the
articles devoted to the NeoWave theory based on Glenn Neely’s book
Mastering Elliott Wave, starting from the first one:

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][2].

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels. ][3]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][5]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][6]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][10].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][11].

[NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][12]

[NeoWave. Part 12. Impulsions and the rules to analyze impulse wave
patterns. ][13]

[NeoWave. Part 13. Corrections. Rules to identify a correction. ][1]

In this article, I will deal with the most complex Elliott wave
patterns, triangles. I will describe the variations of the triangle, and
the criteria to identify the triangle pattern, according to the NeoWave
theory.

### Triangles

Some of the most difficult corrective patterns to work with are the
variations of triangles. They have no specific time limits for
completion. Neely hasn’t also identified any absolute certainty as to
the direction of post-triangular market action. Besides, Triangles are
some of the most common Elliott patterns; therefore, a thorough
understanding of them is essential. Learning to identify triangles early
****in their formation can provide thorough information about the
current market situation.

All Triangle variations follow the below minimum requirements:

  1. There are five segments in any triangle. In order of occurrence, each segment of the triangle is marked by the letters a, b, c, d, and e.

  2. Each segment of the triangle represents a complete corrective phase or a three (“:3”). So, the triangle has a structure of 3-3-3-3-3.

  3. Unlike an Impulse pattern, which tends to trend up or down, all five segments of a triangle will oscillate over and over in the same price territory (overlap) with a slightly expanding or contracting bias.
  4. The triangle can drift slightly upward or downward without affecting these general guidelines.
  5. The length of wave B must fall between 38.2%-261.8% of wave A.
  6. Of the five segments in a triangle, four retrace a previous segment. The retracing segments are waves b,c,d, and e. Of those four, three segments must retrace at least 50% of the previous wave. In a rare case of a running triangle, this parameter may not be completely met.
  7. Only four of the terminal points (of the same degree) in a Triangle should be channeled between contracting trendlines. Remember, each terminal point represents a possible touchpoint, which you can employ to draw converging or diverging trend lines. Non-limiting triangles usually follow this rule, but there are occasional exceptions that may create a fifth touchpoint.
  8. The channel line crossing the terminal points of waves b and d in a triangle is called the base line. In the NeoWave theory, its function is similar to a 2-4 trendline in an impulse wave. Therefore, there is a general rule, the b-d trendline should not be broken by any part of wave c or e in the triangle.

### Contracting triangles

Contracting triangles are, by far, the most common type of triangle.
There is a list of necessary elements in the formation of a contracting
triangle below (minimum requirements for all contracting triangles):

  1. After a contracting triangle completes, there occurs a “thrust” that must be at least 75% of the widest segment of the triangle and under "normal" circumstances will not exceed 125% of the widest segment. Besides, the widest segment is not always wave A. It can be wave B, and, in rare instances, wave C of the triangle.

  2. In a contracting triangle, the thrust must _ ****_exceed the highest or lowest price (depending on the direction of the thrust) achieved during the formation of the triangle. To make the analysis simpler, Neely recommends drawing two parallel horizontal lines. One should be drawn across the highest price level achieved during the formation of the triangle; the other across the lowest price level. When the triangle is developing, these lines will help one predict what to expect after the triangle completes. The only exception to this rule will be when the triangle noticeably drifts in the opposite direction of its thrust.

  3. The last wave in a triangle mustn’t be the smallest wave in the triangle in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of time.

### Let us analyze the contracting triangle on an example.

![LiteForex: An overview of Elliott Wave patterns based on NeoWave
theory by Glenn Neely, triangles.][14]

First, let us check if the general rules for all triangles are observed.

  1. The pattern under study contains 5 segments: a, b, c, d, and e

  2. If other general requirements are met, the rule of threes will be met in any case, so, we won’t waste time analyzing each segment of a triangle this way. In practice, I recommend a detailed analysis of the segment structure only if you hesitate about the pattern type you are working with.

  3. All the segments in the triangle are drifting in the same price territory.

  4. This triangle is slightly drifting up.

  5. It is clear from the chart above that wave B is between 38.2% and 261.8% of wave A.

![LiteForex: An overview of Elliott Wave patterns based on NeoWave
theory by Glenn Neely, triangles.][15]

  6. Of the four retracing segments, three of them must retrace at least 50% of the previous wave. It is clear from the chart above that the retracing segments are waves B and D. The D-wave looks suspicious, but, after measuring the relations between D and B, we see that wave D is 50% of wave B.

  7. Only four terminal points touch the channel lines.

  8. The B-D trendline is not broken by any part of waves C and E of this triangle.

![LiteForex: An overview of Elliott Wave patterns based on NeoWave
theory by Glenn Neely, triangles.][16]

Now, let us check if this pattern meets the requirements of a
contracting triangle.

  1. The widest segment in the triangle is wave A. Let us check the relationship of the thrust, following the triangle, and wave A. As you see from the above chart, the thrust is a little over than 100% of wave A. So, the trust is between 75% and 125% of the widest segment in a triangle.

![LiteForex: An overview of Elliott Wave patterns based on NeoWave
theory by Glenn Neely, triangles.][17]

  2. In the potential contracting triangle we analyze, the thrust exceeds the high and the low reached during the formation of the triangle (pink horizontal line).

  3. It is clear without specific analysis that the final wave in the triangle, wave E is the smallest of all the segments in the triangle.

Therefore, we can conclude that this formation is a contracting
triangle. In the next examples, I won’t demonstrate the basic rules for
all triangles in detail, in order not to repeat myself. Contracting
triangles are divided into _limiting_ and _non-limiting triangles._

### Limiting triangles

Limiting triangles often occur in 4th waves and B-waves of corrective
patterns. The termination of wave E in these patterns should occur from
20-40% before the apex point of the Triangle. There are three variations
of limiting triangles:

  * Horizontal triangles;
  * Irregular triangles;
  * Running triangles.

Each of these variations has its own construction rules. I will cover
them below.

### Horizontal triangles

Of the Contracting Triangles, the Horizontal ****is the most common.
When the market obeys the list of rules below, it indicates a horizontal
****triangle is forming:

  * The trendlines of the triangle must move in the opposite price directions.

  * The apex point of the triangle must fall within a range of 61.8% of the longest segment of the triangle.

  * Wave D must be smaller than wave C.

  * Wave E must be smaller than wave D.

### Irregular triangles

This type of triangle implies a slightly greater thrust and velocity
potential than a horizontal triangle. It features the following rules:

  1. Wave B should not be more than 261.8% of wave A and will usually be less than 161.8%. However, An exact Fibonacci relationship between wave A and wave B of any triangle is very unusual.

  2. Waves c, d, and e must be smaller than the previous wave.

  3. The trendlines of the Triangle should move in opposite directions

### Running triangles

This triangle pattern is the most difficult to interpret, it follows the
below rules:

  1. Wave B is longer than wave A and is the longest wave of the triangle.
  2. Wave C is smaller than wave B.
  3. Wave D is larger than wave C.
  4. Wave E is smaller than wave D.
  5. Both trendlines will slope upward or downward.
  6. The “thrust” after the triangle will be much larger than the widest segment of the triangle,
  7. sometimes as much as 261.8%, but no more.

### Non-Limiting triangles

There is very little difference between contracting non-limiting and
contracting limiting triangles. All of the rules covered above should
apply, except for the following subtle differences that set the two
patterns apart.

Channeling. A non-limiting triangle will behave slightly differently
around the converging trendlines than a limiting triangle. The behavior
occurs in one of three variations:

a.     The most common and distinguishing non-limiting action is
congestion right into, or very near the apex point of the converging
trendlines. Measure the time consumed by the triangle from its beginning
to the end of wave E. If the converging trendlines occur before 20% of
that time (added to the end of wave E) has elapsed, that defines the
above-quoted statement.

b.     Measuring the time distance from the beginning of the Triangle to
the end of wave-e, if the apex point of the converging trendlines occurs
after40% of that time has elapsed, it should, again, be considered a
non-limiting triangle. This is harder to anticipate since the triangle
formation is not quite as obvious

c.     If the post-thrust correction goes into the apex’s time zone of
the converging trendlines, the triangle is a non-limiting. The most
common way for a correction to retrace into the apex point of the recent
triangle is for the thrust, out of the triangle, to be very violent,
reaching its initial price length (based on the widest wave of the
triangle) well before the apex time period occurs.

### Let us study an example and find out what variation the triangle
refers to:

![LiteForex: An overview of Elliott Wave patterns based on NeoWave
theory by Glenn Neely, triangles.][18]

As you see from the above example, the converging of trendlines,
measured from the end of the E-wave, occurs within 20% of the time
consumed by the triangle from its beginning to the end of wave E.

### Expanding triangles

Expanding Triangles are most common during very large complex
corrections. In such patterns, most of the proceeding segments cover a
larger price territory than the previous. The expanding triangles obey
the following rules:

  1. The A-wave or the B-wave will always be the smallest segment of the triangle.
  2. Wave E will almost always be the largest wave of the pattern
  3. Expanding triangles cannot occur as B-waves in zigzags or B, C or D-waves of a larger triangle.
  4. The E-wave will usually be the most time consuming and complex segment of the triangle. The most typical construction of the E-wave is a zigzag or a complex combination of corrections in larger patterns
  5. The E-wave will almost always break beyond the trendline drawn across the top points of wave A and wave C.
  6. The B-D trendline should function the same as it would in any contracting triangle.
  7. The thrust out of an expanding triangle should be less __than the widest wave of the triangle (which, in this case, is wave E) unless it concludes a powerful, larger Correction.
  8. Three waves preceding the E-wave must be at least 50% of the next wave.

Just like contracting triangles, expanding triangles divide into two
distinct categories, limiting and non-limiting. These two under this
formation merely indicate whether the triangle is in a standard wave
position or a part of a more complex correction, they do not have any
significant post-triangular implications.

### Limiting triangles

This variation of expanding triangles is extremely rare as wave 4 in an
impulse of a B-wave in a correction. Regarding them. Neely offers a few
suggestions:

  1. A B-wave expanding, limiting triangle appears to be possible only in an irregular failure or a C-failure flat pattern.
  2. The thrust out of the Triangle is minimal, retracing approximately 61.8% of the triangle from highest to lowest point.

Expanding limiting triangles are grouped into three types:

  * Horizontal triangles;
  * Irregular triangle;
  * Running triangles.

### Horizontal triangles

A horizontal expanding triangle defies the natural tendency of a market
to accumulate or distribute, therefore it is probably the least common
variation of an expanding triangle, it usually occurs in long time
periods. Neely defines the following parameters to identify an expanding
triangle.

  * Wave A must be the smallest wave in the pattern.
  * Waves B, C, D, and E must each exceed the previous segment’s termination point.
  * Wave E often breaks beyond the trendline drawn across the terminal points of wave A and B.

### Irregular triangles

The irregular expanding triangle is a little more common than the
horizontal type and is characterized by several factors:

  * Wave B is smaller than wave A, and all the rest of the waves are larger than the previous. Or wave D is smaller than wave C and all the other waves are larger than the previous.
  * The longer the period of time covered by the pattern, the more likely the channeling of the pattern will be upwardly or downwardly skewed.

### Running triangles

A running triangle often looks like a trending pattern. This is created
because two conditions are met:

  * Wave B is slightly larger than wave A.
  * Wave D is slightly shorter than wave C.

Besides, the trendlines usually go in the same direction, but they still
diverge. The E-wave in this type of pattern can be quite violent.
Another variation occurs when all waves are larger than the previous
except wave C (which is shorter than wave B).

### Non-limiting triangles

The non-limiting expanding variation __refers to triangles that form
within more complex formations. The thrust out of the non-limiting
__expanding __triangle will usually be an X-wave, but it could be the
5th wave of a terminal or the second X-wave of at triple three or a
triple combination

Non-limiting expanding triangles are formed according to the same
principles as the limiting expanding triangles with one exception
regarding the apex point, which is in the past time. Measure the time
consumed by the entire triangle, then take 40% of that amount and
subtract it from the beginning of wave A. The apex will occur before 40%
of time is reached. Usually, it will be reached within 20% of the time
period.

![LiteForex: An overview of Elliott Wave patterns based on NeoWave
theory by Glenn Neely, triangles.][19]

The above triangle being studied meets the following general rules for
expanding triangles:

  1. Wave B is the smallest.
  2. Wave E is the biggest.
  3. The E-wave breaks the trendline drawn across the tops of wave A and wave C.
  4. The trendline drawn across the tops of waves B and D is not broken by any part of waves C and E of this triangle.
  5. The thrust out of the expanding triangle is less than the widest wave of the triangle (that is wave E).
  6. Three waves before the E-wave are each at least 50% of the next wave.

To identify the variation of the expanding triangle, we take 20% and 40%
of the time consumed by the entire pattern to form and subtract the
segments from the beginning of wave A (the blue line presents 20% of the
time, the red one – 40%). The apex occurs before 40% of the time is
reached. So, this triangle is non-limiting.

That is all for today. In the next lesson, I will explain the rules of
logic for corrections.

* * *

Take care of yourself and your money!

Subscribe and be the first to read the most up-to-date materials!

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][20]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][21] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![NeoWave. Part 14. Corrections. Triangles. Rules to identify
triangles.][22]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-13-corrections-rules-to-identify-a-correction/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b/
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a/
   11. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-10-retracement-rule-6-conditions-b-c-and-d/
   12. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-11-retracement-rule-7/
   13. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-12-impulsions-and-the-rules-to-analyze-impulse-wave-patterns/
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.25/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=23f020a26adff4f47360bb61d1ea6070
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.25/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=7b6123fecf647b2c0d82f3248ca814a0
   16. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.25/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=7cc60e7141b3338b1ad2b177b0d76b7e
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.25/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=724cdf16c703d87bb70cf07e2dba7488
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.25/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=4662035ab0aedd20c35a7ff29aa62c34
   19. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.25/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=573c865332c09d5b86fb622635ea21bf
   20. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-14-corrections-triangles-rules-to-identify-triangles&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   21. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-14-corrections-triangles-rules-to-identify-triangles&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   22. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.25/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=e5a62827eaa2c7b57823839cf384b1b2