+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-28"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

April 28, 2020

April 28, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.04.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude –** **oil** ****

Oil medium-term downtrend continues, the key resistance hasn’t yet been
broken out. The key resistance is in the zone of [11.67 – 10.92]. I
don’t recommend selling oil, although the trend is down. I believe the
instrument is strongly oversold.

I suggests expecting the trend reversal up and buy the instrument then.
The trend will turn up when buyers break level 11.67 out and consolidate
the price above.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.04.2020][1]

Oil short-term trend is still up. The price reached the trend key
support [8.49 – 8.07] yesterday. The price tested the support and was
closed within the zone. The support has been broken out today at the
Asian session, but the price hasn’t yet been consolidated below. If the
price goes back to the support level and breaks through the local high
at 9.42 at the US or European session, there will be a buy pattern

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.04.2020][2]



 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [8.49 - 8.07].
TakeProfit: 12.70. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

In the long-term chart, gold price is trading in the medium-term
uptrend, the upside target is to test Target Zone 5 [1757.2 - 1751.2].
The buy pattern emerged last week. The price has been now corrected down
to the mirror level, where one could enter long trades.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.04.2020][4]

Let us switch to the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) chart and analyze the short-term trend. It is
clear from the chart that the gold trend is up, the upside target is to
test the upper Target Zone [1760.0 - 1750.8].

The price was being corrected and testing the strong support Additional
Zone [1715.7 – 1714.4] yesterday. Today, the price has broken out this
support and reached the trend key support [1692.8 – 1688.2].

For today, I recommend entering short-term buy trades according to the
pattern in Intermediary Zone. A part of profits could be taken when the
high of April 23 is broken through.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.04.2020][5]



 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

Open/hold up middle-term buy trades according to the pattern in Target
Zone [1663.9 - 1655.6]. TakeProfit: 1738.0, Target Zone 5 [1757.2 -
1751.2]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The euro-dollar is trading around the strong support Target Zone 2
[1.0803 - 1.0786]. The middle-term trend is down, so, TZ2 should be
broken soon. Once the price is consolidated below TZ 2, the next sell
target will be TZ 3 [1.0927 – 1.0909]. Until then, I recommend watching
the market situation.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.04.2020][7]

Traders were testing the key resistance of the short-term downtrend
[1.0827 - 1.0818]. There was a try to break this zone out, and buyers
succeeded in the momentum, but the price didn’t go above the previous
important high at 1.0856.

Finally, the US session closed the price in the resistance zone, and it
is trading down today. If the European session opens the price below
Intermediary Zone, there will be a signal to sell the EUR/USD. The sell
target will the low of last week.

An alternative scenario to buy: the price breaks out IZ and closes above
at the US session. In this case, on the retest of the broken-out zone,
we shall look for buy entries with a target at the upper Target Zone
[1.0927 – 1.0909] and a stop loss below the local low.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.04.2020][8]



 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.0827 - 1.0818].
TakeProfit: 1.0730. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.04.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_280420_1.png?w=30&s=7b033226fa1f61c96f85ff3554cc95e9
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_280420_2.png?w=30&s=3d8d07bdabad94bd1fc4f806cbe5ad82
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_280420_1.png?w=30&s=04182c312522b9f43d7e791a7f90813e
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_280420_2.png?w=30&s=1ecef2bd0570ba6fc40dcbe10074c497
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_280420_1.png?w=30&s=26f102680e5856dd5beda1cd04e0939d
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_280420_2.png?w=30&s=1dc193f8fe0a0533ec96d69d959ade95
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-28042020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-28042020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_135.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=851780193e868047cfbe664fe791e44f