+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-22"
description = "efficient Forex pattern"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "efficient Forex pattern"
type = "post"
+++

April 22, 2020

April 22, 2020

Forex on M2 highwayDmitri Demidenko

##  **Peculiarities of M2 pattern’s formation and use**

It is believed that Forex quotes move within price channels. The price
channels are plotted through extremums. If the formation of extremums is
accompanied with MACD divergence, traders may get prepared for an
upcoming trend reversal. A series of conditions must be observed for
buying what is cheap or selling what is expensive.  One of the patterns
that use a combination of price channels, extremums and divergence is
M2.

The pattern works best on the H1 time frame. The obligatory conditions
for M2’s formation in a bearish market are:

> 1\. Two decreasing minimums, with the second one located below the
previous one;

>

> 2\. The minimums must form on different trading days;

>

> 3\. The previous trend must be at least 2 times bigger that the
pattern itself.

If the conditions are observed, we can plot a price channel using the
two minimums and a corrective maximum. MACD divergence and the channel’s
width serve as confirming signals. It is desirable that the channel
should be larger than the previous trend.

 **M2 pattern in EUR/JPY chart**

![LiteForex: M2: efficient Forex pattern][1]

To buy [EUR/JPY][2], pay attention to the bars closed above the upper
limit of the key trading channel and to the retest of diagonal support
with subsequent growth of quotes.   A stop order should be placed at the
level of the lower second minimum with a few points in reserve.

 **Opening a position based on M2 pattern**

![LiteForex: M2: efficient Forex pattern][3]

To exit a long position, the authors suggest using Fibonacci channels
and a position management method, according to which a trader should fix
a part of profits upon reaching a new target level. It’s usually 20-40%
of a trade’s volume, that’s why the M2 pattern is often called “20-40”.
In fact, new extremums and reversal patterns constantly appear in the
market. They help determine correctly the moment when a target is
reached.

 **Setting targets based on M2 pattern**

![LiteForex: M2: efficient Forex pattern][4]

As for our [EUR/JPY][2] example, on the H1 time frame there appeared
signals to sell. They point to the end of the corrective movement and to
the upcoming recovery of a downtrend. Is it possible to neglect the
third obligatory condition that says the volume of a short-term trend
should be at least 2 times bigger than the value of M2 pattern? It’s a
trader who needs to make such a decision. And I think we may neglect
that condition considering the sellers’ mass comeback.

When it comes to short positions, a stop loss is placed at the level of
the last extremum too. In this case, I mean the level of the highest
maximum with a few points in reserve. Price targets are set according to
Fib channels. As the quotes of [EUR/JPY][2]  move south, a trader fixes
a part of profits.

 **Selling EUR/JPY based on M2 pattern**

![LiteForex: M2: efficient Forex pattern][5]

In my opinion, the M2 pattern is efficient, but it’s rather a variety of
the [Anti-Turtles][6] pattern. It was used by Larry Williams, Linda
Raschke ([Turtle soup][7], “Turtle soup+1”), Victor Sperandeo (2B
trading system “Bottom/top”) and other successful traders.

Let’s pay tribute to the authors of M2 pattern: working with price
channels is good for swing trading.  What’s more, the more entry points
we have the higher chance that the pattern will be efficient for us. We
are all different and finding a strategy that suits us is sometimes
harder than learning to profit from it.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][8]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][9] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>







## Price chart of EURJPY in real time mode

![Forex on M2 highway][10]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/eurjpy1-22-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=6d1541d82ed652e5fa5c4d6a332f3ec0
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURJPY&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/eurjpy2-22-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=69cb69ea92e2cca53b77ae41e67b0dd2
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/eurjpy3-22-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=95b7cbcde4a4290efd40311633a38e9d
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/eurjpy4-22-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=0a64e0313cab551fa20e23e056ec8d56
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/anti-turtles-a-pattern-for-any-temperament/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/turtle-soup-trading-against-the-crowd/
   8. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=forex-on-m2-highway&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=forex-on-m2-highway&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/liteforex-blog-strategy-22-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=e046d845ec06b18bf672a494b852e57b