+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-22"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 22.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 22.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 22, 2020

April 22, 2020

Dollar: one pro, two consDmitri Demidenko

## Will a worsening financial situation in the USA and rapid growth of
the Fed’s balance sheet outweigh the demand for safe havens

The crash of Brent and WTI spot rates has become a real challenge not
only for oil-producing companies and oil-exporting countries but also
for the local US governments. According to the Wall Street Journal
research, not only Texas but also many other states have become more
dependent on the oil market over the past few years. Their long-term
economic recovery may become a strong barrier to the US economic growth
in 2021. The White House is considering offering federal stimulus to
oil-and-gas producers in exchange for government ownership stakes in the
companies or their crude reserves. However, the problems of the energy
industry are not the only bear factor for the greenback.

It seems that the shock resulted from the WTI drop below zero and the
crash of the US stock indexes should have supported the [EUR/USD][1]
sellers. But this hasn’t occurred in reality, as [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are
considering high risks of the long-term weakening of the US dollar.
According to the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget (CRFB), The
U.S. budget deﬁcit may quadruple to almost $4 trillion in 2021, the US
public debt will surpass records set in the post-World War II years.

 **Dynamics of the US budget deficit and the US public debt**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 22.04.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The huge debt will slow down the recovery of the US economy. Moreover,
the US will need a weaker dollar to lure back the foreign buyers of the
Treasuries. Otherwise, the expansion of the  Fed’s balance sheet can get
out of control.

In the week through April 15, the Fed expanded its asset purchases at a
pace of about $41 billion per day, the balance sheet is being expanded
faster than those of the central banks in the euro area, Japan and the
U.K, which worries the dollar buyers. Yes, the increase in Italy’s bond
yields and their spread with the German bond yields signal a higher
chance that the ECB will hike the QE volume from €1trillion to €2
trillion. Nonetheless, this can support the euro in the short term. In
the time of crisis, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s tend to rather save their money than to
gain, so, low debt market rates are rather appealing. For example,
remember the [EUR/USD][1] reaction to a sharp cut of the federal funds
rate and the increase in the ECB quantitative easing program by €750
billion.

 **Dynamics of central banks’ balance sheets**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 22.04.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

 **Spread between German and Italian bond yields**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 22.04.2020][4]

 _Source: Financial Times_

Although the greenback has many flaws, I don’t think the [EUR/USD][1]
will be rising fast. The euro-area economy is weak, and the recovery of
global growth is likely to be slow. 60% of the more than 3,500 CEOs of
big companies, surveyed by Reuters, expect a U-shaped recovery of the
global GDP, 22% suggest a W-shaped recovery. In this environment, the
demand for safe-havens will be high, and the middle-term consolidation
of the [EUR/USD][1] should continue longer than it was expected. I see
the major currency pair trading in the range of 1.065-1.115.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar: one pro, two cons][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/debt-deficit-22-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=9a203cf26ff0eb71944e8abd62bf4641
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/balances-central-banks-22-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=f2fc6c5a9df9e1c73ae26bdbf176a4f0
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/bonds-ita-ger-22-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=f0a80bda761baedac865210ea190a956
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-one-pro-two-cons&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-one-pro-two-cons&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-22-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=d19868c209c96881b68cdeed656989f2