+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-04"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 04.09.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 04.09.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

September 4, 2020

September 4, 2020

EUR/USD forecast: Euro is rolling in moneyDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental Euro forecast for today

### A boost in European QE is more likely to weaken the euro than to
support the banking system

You can lead a horse to water, but you can’t make him drink. Experts
surveyed by Bloomberg expect the ECB to increase the emergency asset
purchase program by €350 billion by the end of 2020, and the volume of
other programs by another € 220 billion. However, the euro-area banking
system doesn’t need extra liquidity. There is already too much
liquidity, and lending institutions are willing to pay to give the
excess money for temporary use to their colleagues from other banks.
Under such conditions, the expansion of the QE is more a means to weaken
the euro than a way to support thew euro-area economy. It looks like a
currency war.

According to the UBS research, European credit institutions hold €2.9
trillion more than they need for reserve requirements. It is also
because the ECB has provided € 1.3 trillion in loans through the LTRO
since June. At the same time, the central bank has nearly €1.6 trillion
in outstanding loans. The overnight rate falls to a record low of -0.557
in the interbank market, which, according to ING, is paralyzed by the
ECB actions. Nobody needs liquidity _._

###  **Dynamics of excess liquidity**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 04.09.2020][1]

 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

The lower is the interbank lending rate for overnight funds in the euro-
area, the more pressure will be put on the euro. The analysts, polled by
Bloomberg, suggest Christine Lagarde should signal a boost in the ECB QE
at the Governing Council meeting on September 10. It will be a bearish
factor for the [EUR/USD][2].

### Dynamics of the ECB stimulating programs

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 04.09.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Such actions of the European regulator could be interpreted as a
currency war, and Washington could retaliate. However, the Fed was the
first to start the average inflation targeting. According to more than
80 experts surveyed by Reuters, the factor of the Fed’s holding the
interest rate close to zero is the primary growth driver for the
[EUR/USD][2]. Other advantages of the euro, according to the poll, are
the EU fiscal stimulus and the leading growth of the euro-area economy
compared to the US. Analysts see the [EUR/USD][2] at 1.21 in twelve
months.

The euro is also supported by the willingness of the French government
to expand the fiscal assistance to the economy by €100 billion. Besides,
there is a gap in the economic performance of the North and the South,
which increases the risk of disputes among the Governing Council’s
members. For example, the retail sales in Germany, France, and the
Netherlands have already reached pre-crisis levels, while, in Spain,
Portugal, and Greece, the indicator is much lower. A similar gap is in
the PMI data.

After all, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are now focused on the US jobs report. The US
employment, according to the experts surveyed by Reuters, increased by
1.4 million in August, following a rise of 1.76 in July and of 4.79 in
June. If the actual data exceed the forecasts, the [EUR/USD][2] could
slide down below 1.18. If the report is weaker than expected, the euro
can well surge above $1.19.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![EUR/USD forecast: Euro is rolling in money][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liquidity-04-09-20.jpg?w=30&s=c15e604f3b464e1e9598ac4f2f2f24a3
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/ecb-forecast-04-09-20.jpg?w=30&s=e0bca361dc7e70563ec04c0b3bef8f55
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-euro-is-rolling-in-money&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-euro-is-rolling-in-money&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-04-09-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=742df3a75116ae5d5888c7f5ba6cb000