+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-11"
description = "Pound price forecast 11 February 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 11 February 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-11

2021-02-11

Pound is sweeping everything in its path. Forecast as of
11.02.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Sterling has found itself at the very epicenter of V-shaped vaccine
trade strategies and is capitalizing on the vaccine campaign's success.
How quickly can the [GBPUSD][1] pair reach the levels of 1.4-1.42? Let
us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly pound fundamental forecast

When the market turns a blind eye to bad [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) and rallies in response to
good [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/), it is called euphoria. How long it will last, no one knows,
but you should not stand in the way of the bulls in such a situation.
The British pound ignored BoE's call to banks to prepare for negative
interest rates and rose against the US dollar to its highest level since
April 2018. Sterling is not intimidated by the UK economy's weakness,
nor the risks of monetary expansion, or the upcoming political problems.

The National Institute of Economic and Social Research lowered its
forecast for UK gross domestic product growth in 2021 from October's
5.9% to 3.4%. The NIESR also stated GDP could remain below pre-pandemic
level until the end of 2023. This is significantly worse than the Bank
of England estimates, which expects the economy to return to pre-crisis
levels in the first quarter of 2022.

### UK GDP Forecasts

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The NIESR's pessimism is understandable. The organization calls on the
government to extend the duration of the support programs that are about
to end soon. To declare in such a situation that the glass is half-full
is like demanding the end of fiscal stimulus.

In my opinion, the best option is to plan for the worst and hope for the
best. What do both the Bank of England, which talks about the
possibility of introducing negative rates, and the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research. Investors reciprocate them: they are not
afraid of the worst recession in the last 300 years or the double-dip
recession in the first quarter. They are buying the pound due to
expectations that the economy will open up and grow rapidly following
the success of the vaccination campaign. More than 13.5 million people
in Britain have been inoculated so far, accounting for 20.3% of the
population. For comparison, in the US 14% of the country's population
have been vaccinated, in the EU this share is even less - 4.2%.

The president of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, has
admitted the EU's vaccination strategy mistakes. The European Union was
overly optimistic about production capacity and too confident that the
doses would be delivered on time. The divergence in vaccination rate
allowed me [in January][2] to recommend sales of [EURGBP][3] with
targets in the 0.87-0.88 zone, which were successfully achieved.

Indeed, the rapid and large-scale vaccination campaign, as well as the
COVID-19 seasonal decline, are leading to a sharp drop of confirmed
cases in the UK. This raises hopes for an early opening of the economy,
including the service sector, which accounts for the lion's share of
Britain's GDP.

### Dynamics of COVID-19 confirmed cases



 _Source: Nordea Markets._

### Weekly [GBPUSD][1] trading plan

Sterling turns a blind eye to Brussels' statement that more time is
needed for ratification of the Brexit agreement and a potential
referendum on Scottish independence. GBP found itself at the very
epicenter of the V-shaped vaccine trade. Hold [GBPUSD][1] longs formed
in [the level of 1.3565][4] and use the breakout of resistance at 1.3855
or rebounds from supports at 1.3755 and 1.3735 to add up to them. The
target is the level of 1.4-1.42.







## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/pound-develops-immunity-forecast-as-of-20012021/
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURGBP&returnUrl=true
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/pound-believes-in-itself-forecast-as-of-04022021/