+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-11-17"
description = "Euro price forecast 17 November 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 17 November 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-11-17

2021-11-17

How low will euro fall? Forecast as of 17.11.2021Dmitri Demidenko

[EURUSD][1] bulls are set back because of the divergence in the monetary
policies of the Fed and the ECB, energy crisis, and another COVID-19
wave in Europe. The euro continues falling, and the downtrend is not
likely to reverse. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a
trading plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

Monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) is not the only bearish driver for the EURUSD, which is
down to a 17-month low. The ECB is to retain most of the monetary
stimulus, and the euro has other soft points as well. On the contrary,
the greenback has many advantages, including the Fed’s willingness to
raise the rates in 2022. So, the [EURUSD][1] downtrend is natural.

Invesco claims that the main driver of the US dollar’s strength against
the euro in the near future will be unpleasant surprises from the rest
of the world. The company expects the main currency pair to drop to 1.1,
which is far from the most bearish estimate. The US economic surprise
index has recently outpaced the global indicator, which is one of the
reasons for the greenback strengthening against major world currencies.
At the same time, strong reports on retail sales and industrial
production in the United States have widened the difference.

### Dynamics of economic surprise indexes

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The US retail sales increased 1.7% M-o-M, and JP Morgan raised the US
GDP forecast from 4% to 5% for the fourth quarter. In the euro-area
economy, things are not that bright. The rising number of COVID-19 cases
makes some euro-area governments consider new restrictions. It is Europe
that is currently becoming the epicenter of the pandemic, and this
obviously affects the [EURUSD][1] trend.

### Dynamics of EURUSD and the number of COVID-19 cases in USA and
Europe

 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

Nordea Markets and Invesco name the deteriorating epidemiological
situation in the euro area as one of the reasons for the euro’s drop,
with the former company expecting to see the [EURUSD][1] at 1.085 by the
end of 2022. Bank of America claims that the Fed has been preparing the
markets for too long to start the QE tapering to avoid a repeat of the
2013 taper tantrum. However, the central bank cannot afford to delay the
rate hike for that long. St. Louis Fed President James Bullard urges the
Fed to be more aggressive to control inflation properly.

The suspension by German regulators of the Nord Stream 2 certification
procedure backfired with a 15% rise in gas prices. Some analysts even
suggest the euro area could run out of fuel in winter. The energy crisis
and the related slowdown in the euro-area GDP are pressing the
[EURUSD][1] down.

Furthermore, the topic of the national debt ceiling is returning to the
United States. Janet Yellen calls on Congress to raise or suspend it as
soon as possible, as the government will run out of resources to fulfill
its obligations by December 15. The growing uncertainty increases the
risks of the [S&P 500][2] correction, which can support the US dollar as
a safe-haven asset.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Therefore, monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), pandemic, and energy crisis press the euro
down while strong US domestic data and risks of a correction in the
stock market support the greenback. The [EURUSD][1] bulls are set back.
Unless the price shortly goes back above 1.133, the euro sell-off will
continue.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true