+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-29"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 29, 2020

July 29, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.07.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

The middle-term trend on oil stays upward. At the moment, the price is
trading in the area of a resistance zone [41.67 - 40.92]. Bulls are
unable to break through this level, hence the development of correction
is possible. If you see a reversal pattern, sell oil in a correction
down to the key support zone [35.54 - 34.86].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.07.2020][1]

The short-term trend is upward. At the moment, the price is trading
close to a strong resistance - Additional Zone [40.64 - 40.47]. There is
no pattern for longs, continue to monitor the huge traders' moves.

If Additional Zone is broken, sell oil at the retest of the zone with
the target in the area of the key support level of the trend -
Intermediary Zone [38.94 - 38.60].

After reaching Intermediary Zone look for longs again.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.07.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Buy according to the pattern from Additional Zone [40.64 - 40.47]. TakeProfit: 42.30. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. In case of breakout of Additional Zone [40.64 - 40.47] - sell. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [38.94 - 38.60]. StopLoss: above the next local high.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Yesterday's American trading session closed above the resistance -
Target Zone 8 [1937.2 - 1931.2]. I propose to wait for consolidation
above the zone - it will take another American trading session. If it
happens, the next target in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of the middle-term uptrend will be
Target Zone 9 [1997.2 - 1991.2].

Otherwise, you'll see a trend correction to the area of Target Zone
[1899.1 - 1890.9].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.07.2020][4]

Let's take a look at a chart of a lower timeframe. There is a short-term
downtrend since yesterday Intermediary Zone [1940.1 - 1936.0] was broken
through with a strong impulse.

The price didn't make it to the target in Target Zone [1899.1 - 1890.9]
- it corrected to the area of favourable prices to form shorts from
[1952.0 - 1936.0].

Look for gold shorts from the area indicated above or according to the
pattern, or at the market price with a stop-loss higher than the maximum
of the day.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.07.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

Sell from the area of [1952.0 - 1936.0]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1899.1
- 1890.9]. StopLoss: 1965.5.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The euro is trying to break through Target Zone 3 [1.1732 - 1.1714] - a
strong resistance on the way of the middle-term uptrend. Let's see if it
manages to do that. In case of success, the next target will be at
Target Zone 4 [1.1914 - 1.1896].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.07.2020][7]

Let's take a look at a chart of a lower timeframe.

There is a short-term uptrend. At the moment, the bulls are trying to
break through resistance - Target Zone 3 [1.1749 - 1.1731]. The bears do
not let the price go higher, hence a correction to the area of the key
support of the trend [1.1690 - 1.1681] is possible.

If the key support level is tested by the price, look for new euro longs
according to the pattern. The maximum of July 27 is the target in this
case.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.07.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Buy according to the pattern from Additional Zone [1.1736 - 1.1731]. TakeProfit: 1.1780. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern from Intermediary Zone [1.1690 - 1.1681]. TakeProfit: 1.1780. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.07.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_290720_1.png?w=30&s=80760a2014b931f07e9e82d0f7394f34
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_290720_2.png?w=30&s=a895aaa9694e81b9b22ed298ecab1f96
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_290720_1.png?w=30&s=db3254fcbed0d22b4ec5b9416cb6e883
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_290720_2.png?w=30&s=b6050b459e72a7bf18166737dc23c9c1
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_290720_1.png?w=30&s=32afbb13fcbff53176d5314c1b28cce4
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_290720_2.png?w=30&s=bdd98e1aee011c0da95a3244c7ecc84a
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-29072020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-29072020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_98.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=980934d2c91dd16d32ce1aad61c8ed6e