+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-29"
description = "Forecast for GBPUSD for 29 July 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for GBPUSD for 29 July 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 29, 2020

July 29, 2020

Forecast for GBP/USD: Pound caught enemies in a lieDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental forecast for pound for today

### GBP/USD bulls have been told that the British economy is bad and the
Brexit negotiations are deadlocked

Markets tend to fall when Euphoria gives way to Disappointment and rise
when the future turns out to be not as bleak as they are being told. A
notable example is the British Pound, which soared to its highest level
since early March against the US dollar and strengthened against the
euro, although it did not have such a powerful trump card as the EU's
approval of the Franco-German proposal for a fiscal stimulus. The
explanation for this may be found in the fact that there are too many
bears in the market: speculators were building up net-short positions in
sterling in the week of July 21 but hung the white flag as soon as they
smelled something fishy.

In the middle of July, the pound was the most paradoxical currency in
Forex. Brexit negotiations stalled, modest 1.8% GDP growth in May
indicated a slow recovery in Great Britain forcing the BoE hawks into a
corner, exacerbated the risks of repo rates falling below zero, and
pushed the U.K. bond yields to historic lows.

### Derivatives market forecasts for the repo rate

![LiteForex: Forecast for GBPUSD for 29 July 2020][1]

 _Source: Wall Street Journal._

### U.K. bond yields dynamics

 _![LiteForex: Forecast for GBPUSD for 29 July 2020][2]_

_Source: Wall Street Journal._

External factors, such as the [S&P 500][3] rally and the weakness of the
US dollar, were perceived as the main drivers of the [GBP/USD][4] rally,
but at the end of July everything turned upside down. Retail sales
growth of 13.9% MoM and the best dynamics of the U.K. Composite
Purchasing Managers' Index (PMI) since 2015 have given rise to rumours
that the idea of ​​a V-shaped GDP recovery has been buried in vain.
Investors have been misled, and it seems, not only in the economy.

The tabloids argued that negotiations between London and Brussels were
deadlocked but could the question be raised that way if progress in the
areas of European Court of Justice supremacy and government subsidies
was evident? The EU has backed down from tough demands, and Britain only
needs to step forward to strike a deal. According to Reuters insider,
Michel Barnier said during a closed meeting with national envoys that a
new agreement with the U.K. is possible. Not only does Brussels need it,
but London as well, no matter how much the latter speaks about the
advantages of individual trade agreements with individual states. In
fact, Bloomberg research argues that the benefits of maintaining access
to the single market will be preferable to working on WTO [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/).

### Preferences of trade agreements

![LiteForex: Forecast for GBPUSD for 29 July 2020][5]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Thus, the picture is gradually becoming clear: the state of the British
economy is not as bad as it is believed, the Bank of England is unlikely
to drop the repo rate below zero, and the interest in the deal of both
the EU and the U.K. allows us to maintain faith in its conclusion, in
early October if not in September. The pound has its own trump cards,
which, coupled with the weakness of the US dollar, allow us to count on
the continuation of the [GBP/USD][4] rally in the direction of 1.33 and
1.36 in 6 and 12 months. The main strategy is to buy the GBP/USD on
pullbacks, the main risks of the strategy are the deterioration of the
epidemiological situation in Europe and the inconclusive Brexit.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

![Forecast for GBP/USD: Pound caught enemies in a lie][8]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/repo-rate-uk-29-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=11f6692b5d34c119e8a20dd167d57e50
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/bonds-uk-29-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=3f507bc234fe5ca907fd8fa3855c7c6d
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/brexit-29-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=f23379e5afd83a2a7cbee501d27cb46c
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forecast-for-gbpusd-pound-caught-enemies-in-a-lie&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forecast-for-gbpusd-pound-caught-enemies-in-a-lie&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-gbpusd-29-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1d2409792fb9aae0c0368ff0727b2fb5