+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-29"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 29, 2020

April 29, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.04.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  ** **USCrude –** **oil****

Oil middle-term downtrend continues, as the key resistance hasn’t been
broken out. The key resistance is in the zone of [11.67 - 10.92]. I
don’t recommend selling oil, although the trend is down. I believe the
instrument is strongly oversold.

I recommend expecting the trend reversal up and buy the instrument then.
The trend will turn up when buyers break level 11.67 out and consolidate
the price above.

The oil price is now rising from Target Zone 4 [6.49 – 5.93], strong
middle-term support. The upside target is the high of last week.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.04.2020][1]

The short-term uptrend hasn’t been broken. Yesterday, the price went
back to the key support zone [8.49 – 8.07] at the US session. Today, the
price is rising, and buyers are trying to consolidate it above the
resistance level of 9.40. If the price consolidates above the level,
there will emerge a flase breakout pattern to buy.

For today, I recommend expecting the buy pattern to complete and enter
oil buy trades on the correction close to Intermediary Zone [8.49 –
8.07]. The buy targets will be the highs of last week and Gold Zone
[15.04 — 14.67].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.04.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [8.49 - 8.07].
TakeProfit: 12.70, Gold Zone [15.04 - 14.67]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

Gold middle-term uptrend continues, the upside target is to test Target
Zone 5 [1757.2 - 1751.2]. The buy pattern emerged last week. The gold
price was corrected down to the mirror level, where one could enter long
trades yesterday.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.04.2020][4]

Let us analyze the short-term chart. Gold is trading in the short-term
uptrend with the target at Target Zone [1760.0 - 1750.0].

Yesterday, gold traders were testing Intermediary Zone [1692.8 –
1688.2]. The zone wasn’t broken out. The price only touched the support
twice, buyers were active and the price was rising.

Therefore, one may enter short-term gold purchasers.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.04.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

Open/hold up middle-term buy trades according to the pattern in Target
Zone [1663.9 - 1655.6]. TakeProfit: 1738.0, Target Zone 5 [1757.2 -
1751.2]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EUR/USD is being corrected up in the middle-term downtrend. The
trend key resistance is in the zone of [1.0927 - 1.0909]. Good sell
prices will be provided when the resistance is tested.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.04.2020][7]

Let us look at the shorter timeframe. There is an interesting situation.
On the one hand, the price goes far beyond the trend key resistance
[1.0827 – 1.0818], on the other hand, the buy trades are absorbed at the
US sessions, and the price goes back to the resistance zone.

I don’t recommend entering any trades on the EUR/USD in the short term.
I suggest expecting either the test of the middle-term resistance or a
clear sell pattern, like 1-2-3, in the hourly timeframe.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.04.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

Open medium-term sell positions in Target Zone [1.0927 - 1.0909].
TakeProfit: 1.0730. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 29.04.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_290420_1.png?w=30&s=b784a41d38a2110e4a5d384bc68244dd
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_290420_2.png?w=30&s=646d2ca5de164a4a0cadf3d3a83889f5
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_290420_1.png?w=30&s=80147f0a7faa9b7e9d9fa470850f9fcd
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_290420_2.png?w=30&s=0ba5d39e42c4754901ba3aa97174f8b7
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_290420_1.png?w=30&s=2a9c2bc3c50476d2603d81f709e0f752
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_290420_2.png?w=30&s=723d42626f7f4beaab0a958ebb31a2f5
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-29042020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-29042020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_12.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=e2dfff1dd9764c43a9f969abc08da506