+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-29"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 29.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 29.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

April 29, 2020

April 29, 2020

Will the euro get a stab in the back?Dmitri Demidenko

## The German Federal Constitutional Court  may turn the  Bundesbank
off from the game

The Fed can turn the bear trend in the US stock market up, but it can’t
discourage the [EUR/USD][1] sellers. The huge flows of the cheap
liquidity allowed the S&P 500 to go 28% from the lows hit in March.
However, the impressive surge of the stock index didn’t result in the
euro’s rally. The euro has many flaws that don’t allow using the
increase in the global risk appetite and the lower demand for safe-
havens.

Unlike S&P Global Rating, Fitch has downgraded Italy’s credit rating to
“BBB-minus”, just one notch above junk, saying the downgrade reflects
the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on Italy’s economic and fiscal
position. The raring may still go lower if the government doesn’t
realize the plan to reduce public debt to GDP. Nonetheless, Fitch
changed Italy's outlook to stable from negative, saying it sees European
QE will hold the yields low, at leas t in the short term. The euro-area
modestly reacted to the information that Christine Lagarde will announce
the purchases of the “fallen angels” at the ECB meeting on April 30.
However, the ECB can get a stab in the back from Germany.

 **Dynamics of Italy-Germany bond yield spread**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 29.04.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

On May 5, Germany's constitutional court will issue a verdict on the
legality of the European Central Bank's program of asset purchases. In
2017, it assigned the responsibility to the European Court, which
declared the QE legal in 2018 with the proviso that the central bank
will observe all rules, including the key capital, issuance limit, and
the eligibility requirements for securities. The pandemic made the ECB
cancel the rules, which increases the risk that the QE will be declared
illegal. The financial market will hardly ignore this [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/), as it will
raise some questions, including the Bundesbank’s participation in the
QE. If Germany's constitutional court considers the factor of the
coronavirus outbreak and turns a blind eye to the violation of rules,
the [EUR/USD][1] bulls could go ahead.

Traders are not yet willing to sell the [EUR/USD][1], as the US stocks
are rallying up amid the hopes for the soon reopening of the US economy
and the trust in the Fed’s announcement that the extraordinary
stimulating measures will continue as long as it is needed. The Federal
Reserve has done more than other world’s central banks, which has
reduced the stock market’s volatility and substantially improved the US
financial conditions. Nonetheless, the Fed can’t make the Americans go
to work.

 **Dynamics of sizes monetary stimulus**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 29.04.2020][3]

 _Source: Financial Times_

 **Dynamics of volatility and the U.S. financial conditions**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 29.04.2020][4]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Due to the huge fiscal assistance, the average size of unemployment
benefits increased from $378 to $878 per week. Half of the US workers
earned less than $957 per week in the first quarter. Does it make any
sense to stop the quarantine leave before August? If the U.S. economy is
reopened slower than it was expected earlier, the S&P 500 will go down,
being followed by the [EUR/USD][1] decline towards the bottom of the
trading range of 1.065-1.115.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Will the euro get a stab in the back?][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/bonds-italy-germany-29-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=5b56d29d91866d1c717328351bfca54c
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/monetary-stimuls-29-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=ab386fde6df663b2b240895d6343b35c
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/financial-conditions-volatility-29-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=90039d41d3f97ba34bf270a725145ef5
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=will-the-euro-get-a-stab-in-the-back&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=will-the-euro-get-a-stab-in-the-back&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-29-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1b111fa0fe66765304a244f42a3430a8