+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-14"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 14.09.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 14.09.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-14

2020-09-14

Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 14.09.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil is testing the key support of the middle-term uptrend [37.34 –
36.72]. Expect a pattern and enter purchases with the target at the high
of August.

If the zone is broken through and the price consolidates below, the
middle-term trend will turn down. If so, we shall sell oil with a target
at the lower Target Zone 2 [31.14 — 30.52].

The shorter timeframe indicates the short-term downtrend. Traders are
now testing the resistance Additional Zone [37.73 – 37.58]. I suggest
selling according to the pattern, the target will be at the low of last
week.

If the price breaks out Additional Zone, the price will be further
corrected up to Intermediary Zone [39.44 – 39.13]. When IZ is tested, I
will also recommend entering sell trades according to the pattern with
the same target.

###  **[USCrude][1]trading ideas for today:**

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [37.73 - 37.58]. TakeProfit: 36.11. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [39.44 - 39.13]. TakeProfit: 36.11. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

According to technical analysis, gold is trading in the downtrend. Last
week, the market was corrected up to the accumulation zone but wend down
again. Now, gold is trading under the resistance, where I recommend
entering sell trades.

It is clear from the shorter timeframe that the traders were testing the
key resistance of the short-term downtrend [1957.7 – 1953.0] last week.
They didn’t break the zone out, it is still relevant to sell.

To open new sell positions, expect a pattern that will emerge when the
price breaks through the low of Friday and consolidates below.

Otherwise, the short-term trend will turn up via the breakout of
Intermediary Zone. If so, starting from the next trading day, we shall
enter purchases with the target in the upper Target Zone [2008.8 —
1999.5].

###  **[XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:**

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1957.7 - 1953.0].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1899.4 - 1890.1]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

Last week, the EUR/USD traders were testing the key support of the
middle-term uptrend [1.1811 – 1.1791]. They didn’t break the zone out,
and the price went back to the support zone. Expect a buy pattern this
week. It will emerge when the price breaks through the local high of
last week and consolidates above.

The EUR/USD short-term trend is up, as the market broke out Intermediary
Zone [1.1863 – 1.1853]. After the breakout, the price was corrected down
to the trend key support [1.1817 - 1.1807]. Bulls are trying to take
control and draw a buy pattern.

If there is a buy pattern, it will be relevant to buy the euro with the
target at the upper Target Zone [1.1973 — 1.1953].

An alternative scenario suggests the price should break out the trend
key support and consolidate below. In this case, the price will go down
towards the lower Target Zone [1.1717 – 1.1697], and we shall enter sell
trades.

###  **[EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:**

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1817 - 1.1807].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1973 - 1.1953]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-14092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-14092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus