+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-14"
description = "AUD/USD forecast for 14.09.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "AUD/USD forecast for 14.09.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-14

2020-09-14

AUD/USD forecast: Aussie wants to keep the party goingDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental Australian dollar forecast for today

### Are the AUD/USD growth drivers exhausted?

In the second quarter, the Australian economy encountered the deepest
downturn since the records started in 1959. Australia’s GDP contracted
by 7% Q-o-Q and by 6.3% Y-o-Y. The RBA cut the interest rate to the
record lo. The central bank has also bought AU$60 since March amid the
QE program. The Aussie should have dropped in value, but the
[AUD/USD][1] rate has been 32% up since the low hit in March. Doesn’t
the major rule of the fundamental analysis “strong economy – strong
currency” work here? Now, it perfectly works! The matter is that
everything is relative in Forex!

A drop by 6.3% in Australian growth is nothing compared to the US GDP
contraction by 32%. AUS$60 billion is very little compared with the
trillions of dollars in the USA. In Australia, there are less than
30,000 of coronavirus cases, while there are more than six million of
COVID-19 cases in the USA. Australia has managed the pandemic better
than many other advanced economies, the economy is not critically weak,
the RBA yield control [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) allows it not to waste the monetary tools.
Besides, China supports Australia’s foreign trade.

### Dynamics of RBA interest rate and the Australian dollar exchange
rate



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

China is the largest market for Australian exports. Although the
diplomatic relations between the two countries are tense, after Canberra
accused China of COVID-19 laboratory origins, the trade relations are
good. Since the beginning of the year, Australia’s exports to China have
increased by 75% compared to the same period in 2016, when the last
official meeting of the countries’ leaders took place. The core of the
China-Australia trade is iron ore. Over the past twelve months, China
has imported 700 million tons of iron ore from Australia. It is twice as
much as it was in 2010 when the diplomatic relations between Australia
and China were much better.

### Chinese imports from Australia

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Therefore, the [AUD/USD][1] uptrend is strong for several reasons.
Australia’s economy is stronger compared to others, China supports
Australia’s foreign trade, the Fed’s monetary expansion is
unprecedented, which weakens the US dollar. The matter is whether the
major bullish drivers have exhausted? Will the Aussie continue its
rally?

The analysts polled by Reuters believe the [AUD/USD][1] uptrend should
slow down. The see the pair trading at 0.72 in one and three months. In
six and twelve months, the exchange rate will be at 0.73 and 0.74,
accordingly. These levels are close to the current one, which suggests a
long consolidation period. In my opinion, it is still relevant to buy
the Aussie. China has averted a new round of trade war with the US. The
Australian government is working on the income tax reduction bill, which
should support GDP growth. The greenback’s’ long-term outlook remains
bearish. So, I recommend entering the [AUD/USD][1] longs if Australia’s
job report for August is positive. The middle-term targets are at 0.75
and 0.763.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][2]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][3] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=audusd-forecast-aussie-wants-to-keep-the-party-going&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   3. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=audusd-forecast-aussie-wants-to-keep-the-party-going&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus