+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-14"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 14.09.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 14.09.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-14

2020-09-14

EUR/USD forecast: ECB set the euro bulls backDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental euro forecast for today

### The European central bank managed to weaken the euro

To make a winning bet, one should anticipate the strategy of the major
players. When I suggested we should sell the [EUR/USD][1] on the [rise
above 1.19][2] after the ECB September meeting, I presumed that the
Governing Council won’t press the euro down at the press conference.
However, I expected the ECB officials to target the euro a little later.
I was right. Christine Lagarde, first, surprised the market by her
neutral tone concerning the euro exchange rate. Next, the Governing
Council members resorted to verbal interventions. Finally, the European
Central Bank set the euro rally back, and the sell trades yielded
profits.

According to Philip Lane, the upward revisions in the euro-area
inflation growth have been “significantly muted” by the stronger euro.
European Central Bank chief economist used tougher language than
President Christine Lagarde did at the press conference following the
ECB meeting. On the next day, Lagarde noted that the euro’s appreciation
partially muted the positive influence of the asset purchase program on
the euro-area economy. Like Lane, she also expressed concerns about the
current economic state. Bank of France Governor Francois Villeroy de
Galhau also said the exchange rate “does matter for inflation and
monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)”.

### Dynamics of the euro exchange rate

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The ECB has completed its mission. The [EUR/USD][1] bulls have been set
back, and they will hardly go against the European central bank. What’s
next? To buy or not to buy the euro? On the one hand, the EU doesn’t
have such problems with the boosting of the monetary stimulus as the US
government. The Democrats and the Republicans still fail to agree on the
additional aid package. The EU canceled the rules about fiscal
consolidation amid the pandemic, and it won’t stop stimulating the
economy. French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire said it would be strange
to set the date of the EU budget rules return as it is not clear when
the crisis ends. So, the stimulus will hardly be abandoned in 2021.

The QE program allows the EU governments to borrow money at low interest
rates. According to UBS, the net supply of bonds in Europe in 2020 will
be - € 73 billion, compared with + € 182 billion in 2019. The ECB is
buying more bonds than countries issue, which has increased the German
10-year bond yield to the level of -0.484%. The Italian bond yield
hasn’t exceeded 1% since late July.

###  **Dynamics of euro-area bond supply**

 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

On the other hand, the [EUR/USD][1] bulls can’t benefit from the
divergence in the economic expansion any longer. It is not steady. After
a surge in the third quarter, following the removal of the restrictions,
the euro-area growth should slow down in the fourth quarter. So, the
growth-gap between Europe and the USA won’t be so wide as it was before.
This fact may encourage the euro bears to break out the supports at
$1.18 and $1.177, which should increase the risk of the euro’s fall.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/eurusd-forecast-ecb-is-on-the-warpath/
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-ecb-set-the-euro-bulls-back&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-ecb-set-the-euro-bulls-back&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus