+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-14"
description = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-14

2020-09-14

Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysisRoman Onegin

## Forecast for BTCUSD, LTCUSD, ETHUSD, EOSUSD, XRPUSD pairs

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[BTCUSD][1]**

The BTCUSD market continues forming corrective wave 4 as a double zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]. After the down wave [W] completed as a standard zigzag
(A)-(B)-(C), there has started the upward linking wave [X]. It could
also complete as a double combination. The sub-waves (W) and (X) have
completed, the final wave (Y) have completed is still developing. Let us
analyze the structure of the (Y) wave in the chart.

Wave (Y) is likely to complete as a simple zigzag that is composed of
the sub-waves A-B-C. Impulse wave A has completed, its fourth wave,
correction [4] is a contracting triangle. The market is now running down
in the corrective wave B, which is unfolding as a double zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]. Most likely, the [W] zigzag will end at a level of 9700.
Next, the market should start rising in the linking wave [X] towards
level 10900. The entire correction B could complete at a level of 8000,
as it is outlined in the chart.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[ETHUSD][2]**

 ****

The upward linking wave [X] continues forming as a triple zigzag,
composed of the sub-waves (W)-(X)-(Y)-(X)-(Z). The bullish wave (Y) has
recently completed, and the price is now declining in the linking wave
(X) that may end as a simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C), as it is outlined in
the chart. It should end at a level of around 162.14. The expected
target is at the support line of the channel, whose lines are drawn
across the tops of (W)-(X)-(Y). Let us study the chart structure in more
detail at the H8 chart.

The down impulse wave A is now developing within the linking wave (X).
Its four legs, the sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3]-[4] could have completed, and
there is likely to be developing the final impulse wave [5]. The price
is likely to continue declining to a level of 300. Next, the price
should turn up and start rising in the correction B. An approximate
trajectory of the Ethereum future price movement is outlined in the
chart.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[LTCUSD][3]**

 ****

The LTCUSD market continues forming the global corrective wave B,
namely, it’s final part, a zigzag-shaped wave [Z]. Wave [Z] is unfolding
as a simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). The impulse wave (A) has completed, and
the bullish correction (B) has also completed. There is now developing
the bearish impulse wave (C). Let us see its structure in more detail in
the eight-hour timeframe.

The impulse wave (C) of [Z], which currently forming, is composed of
five sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. The sub-waves 1 and 2 have completed, and
impulse 3 is still unfolding. Over the next few weeks, the price is
expected to continue growing in the sub-waves 3-4-5, as it is outlined
in the chart. In other words, the price will tend to the previous low
marked by the bear impulse wave (A).

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[EOSUSD][4]**

 ****

The EOSUSD market is forming the corrective wave B as a bearish zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The first four legs of this pattern look complete.
The final wave [Z] is currently forming as a simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C).
It could end at a level of 1.40. It is the previous low made by wave
[Y]. Let us study the structure of wave [Z] in more detail in the eight-
hour timeframe.

The impulse wave (A) have completed within wave [Z]. The price is now
following the corrective wave (B) that is composed of the sub-waves
A-B-C. The B correction should complete at the level close to the
previous low, made by wave (A), that is a level of around 3.21. When the
(B) correction completes, the market should turn down and start
declining in the impulse wave (C), as it is outlined in the chart.

* * *

###  **Wave analysis for[XRPUSD][5]**

The XRPUSD market is also forming the corrective wave as a triple
zigzag. The first four legs of the pattern have completed, and the final
element, wave [Z] is currently forming. The [Z] wave is unfolding as a
simple down zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). The (A) wave should complete at a level
of 0.188. Next, after a short rise in the (B) correction, the price
should continue declining in the (C) impulse towards the previous low at
0.110, as it is outlined in the chart. Let us study the chart in more
detail in a shorter timeframe.

Within the (A) wave, there have completed sub-waves 1 and 2, the impulse
wave 3 is still forming. The market should be declining in impulse 3, in
its final element. Next, the price should go up in the corrective wave
4. After that, the price could resume declining in wave 5 towards a
level of 0.188, as it is outlined in the chart.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-09-14&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-09-14&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus