+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-13"
description = "Euro price forecast October 13 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast October 13 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-13

2020-10-13

Will euro catch a ‘blue wave’? Forecast as of 13.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The support from Asia is replaced by the resistance, which discourages
the euro bulls. Let us discuss the euro prospects and make up a
[EURUSD][1] trading plan.

##  **Fundamental euro forecast today**

The country determines the currency. The export-led euro area depends on
foreign demand, as it often compensates for the domestic deficit. The
euro-area GDP is rising when the global economy is strong or is
recovering after a crisis. The same is true for the euro. While the
foreign drivers support the [EURUSD][1] bulls, like the US stock indexes
and the Chinese yuan, the single European currency is strengthening.
Once the support weakens, there come the euro-area domestic negative
factors.

Despite a steady rise of the [S&P 500][2], the [USDCNH][3] correction
has set the euro buyers back. The PBoC has made a step towards the yuan
weakening. The Chinese central bank canceled a 20% reserve requirement
for banks buying foreign exchange for their clients through forward
contracts. It makes it easier to sell renminbi. The last time when the
PBoC took such actions was in September 2017; the USDCNH was up about
2.5% in the next three weeks.

Beijing is concerned about yuan growth. Before the reserve requirements
were canceled, the yuan had been up to an eighteen-month high against
the US dollar. According to Goldman Sachs, if there is the so-called
‘blue wave,’ which means Democrats’ control of the White House and
Congress, the USDCNH will drop to 6.5. I think the yuan strengthening is
an objective process. The divergence in the USA and China's economic
expansion and monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) support the inflow of foreign capitals in
China. The yield gap between Chinese bonds and Treasuries has widened to
all-time highs. The capitalization of the Shanghai Composite exceeded
$10 trillion for the first time since 2015; it has increased by $3.3
trillion from the March low.

The euro follows the yuan. The growth of the Chinese GDP supports the
euro-area economy. The second wave of COVID-19 in Europe increases the
risks of lockdowns. The UK could withdraw from the EU without a deal.
Besides, the ECB resorts to verbal interventions and suggests further
monetary easing. The euro has enough flaws, but they have been so far
compensated with the foreign factors, the rallies of the [S&P 500][2]
and the renminbi.

###  **Dynamics of euro and Chinese yuan**



 _Source_ _: Trading Economics_

What’s next? I believe the yuan and the US stock indexes will soar if
Joe Biden wins, which will support the [EURUSD][1] bulls. Nonetheless,
the export-led euro-area economy will remain weak without the widespread
introduction of vaccines and the associated acceleration of global GDP
growth. In this scenario, the ECB will stay dovish, creating strong
barriers to the euro’s growth.

###  **[EURUSD][1] **trading plan today

Of course, foreign support is good for the euro, but the euro-area
economy is still weak. The [EURUSD][1] should be consolidating in the
range of 1.16-1.2. In the short run, one could try to sell the pair at
the breakout of the support at 1.178, or buy is the resistance at 1.183
is successfully tested.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCNH&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=will-euro-catch-a-blue-wave-forecast-as-of-13102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=will-euro-catch-a-blue-wave-forecast-as-of-13102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus