+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-14"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 14, 2020

July 14, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.07.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil is trading in the medium-term uptrend. The price is now trading
under the resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. If it is broken out,
the next growth target will be Target Zone 6 [49.17 – 48.42].

Otherwise, the price will be corrected down to the trend key support
[33.64 — 32.86].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.07.2020][1]

In the short-term timeframe, oil is trading between the support [39.32 –
39.15] and the resistance [40.37 – 40.20]. The short-term trend is up.

If the price breaks out the support [40.37 – 40.20], it should continue
falling towards Intermediary Zone [37.54 – 37.15].

If buyers break out the resistance [40.37 – 40.20], the price will be
likely to break through June’s high.

I recommended selling oil according to the pattern yesterday. There was
a pattern, today, we expect an entry point as close to Additional Zone
[40.37 - 40.20] as possible, a stop loss is at 41.05.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.07.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today: **

Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [40.37 - 40.20].
TakeProfit: 38.57, 37.00. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

In the medium-term timeframe, gold uptrend has stopped under the
resistance Target Zone 6 [1817.2 — 1811.2]. It is yet too early to sell
gold, we need a sell pattern “double extreme” or some other technical
analysis pattern to confirm the idea to sell.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.07.2020][4]

In the short-term gold trading chart, the price is trading in the short-
term uptrend. Yesterday and today, the price was corrected down to
Additional Zone [1797.6 - 1795.6]. I recommended you to enter purchases
in this zone and hold up buy trades with a stop at 1793.3. The price is
more likely to break through the high of last week than to fall into
Intermediary Zone [1777.1 – 1773.0] because:

  1. there is a buy trend;
  2. the short-term trend is up.

However, if sellers break out Additional Zone and consolidate the price
below, we shall look for an entry point to sell gold on the zone’s
retest.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.07.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

Hold up buy trades entered in Additional Zone [1797.6 - 1795.6].
TakeProfit: 1817.2. StopLoss: 1793.3.

* * *

##  **Euro to dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The EUR/USD is consolidating a little lower than the resistance [1.1368
– 1.1350]. Expect the price to break out this zone and break through
June’s high.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.07.2020][7]

The EURUSD short-term uptrend continues. Traders again tested the
resistance Target Zone [1.1385 – 1.1367] yesterday. The price is rolling
back form the zone.

I believe the buy targets have not been reached yet. According to the
previous trading recommendations, we should be holding long trades up to
at least level 1.1385.

Next, we shall see if the buyers consolidate the price above the
resistance or not. If they do, the next upside target will be Gold Zone
[1.1467 – 1.1458].

As the local high was broken through by the euro price, the strong
support zones should be moved. Additional Zone is now at [1.1329 -
1.1325], and the trend key support is now at [1.1284 – 1.1275]. When
these zones are tested, we shall enter new purchases according to the
pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.07.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

Hold up buy trades entered in Intermediary Zone [1.1279 - 1.1270].
TakeProfit: 1.1385. StopLoss: 1.1253.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 14.07.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_140720_1.png?w=30&s=b5a9ee9548324105f768ae3d16c793c1
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_140720_2.png?w=30&s=51812af8f38aaed8e4a8dbf81328376e
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_140720_1.png?w=30&s=122d5ebfaa187b142a2d5116fb3b830e
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_140720_2.png?w=30&s=bf435622441d7d2c29936574bacba91b
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_140720_1.png?w=30&s=dad60f99c464bebc860561f7840e68ea
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_140720_2.png?w=30&s=ee0351dd51f77d6e8e24761a59e1a7d0
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-14072020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-14072020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_140.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=ea75356177670c256c1ff5e2b31d70fe