+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-14"
description = "Long-term and medium-term technical analysis of Alphabet (Google). Actual scenarios and trading plans Buyers’ and sellers’ nearest targets"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Long-term and medium-term technical analysis of Alphabet (Google). Actual scenarios and trading plans Buyers’ and sellers’ nearest targets"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 14, 2020

July 14, 2020

Technical analysis of Alphabet (Google) stockMikhail Hypov

##  **GOOGLE shares: technical analysis**

Last time we [got acquainted][1] with one of the largest companies in
the US stock market - [Alphabet][2]. This company conducts a lot of
business activities and incorporates some other companies, but it’s
Google and its subsidiaries that account for 90% of [Alphabet][2]’s
revenue. Thus, when reading about  [Alphabet][2] we should understand
we’re reading about Google. I’ve mentioned the company’s good
fundamental base and long-term growth prospects in the previous article.
In this article, we’ll find out at which technical levels those
prospects are. We’ll analyse trading volumes, wave structures of super
cycles, oscillators and nearest support and resistance levels. Let’s
start!

 **GOOGLE stock in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of gold standard**

Let me remind you about my own exclusive approach called  [G35][3] that
I set out in one of my previous articles. This author’s method allows
recalculating any asset’s cost in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of the 1971 gold standard.

![LiteForex: Long-term and medium-term technical analysis of Alphabet
\(Google\). Actual scenarios and trading plans Buyers’ and sellers’
nearest targets][4]

As the chart above suggests, this method shows that the current stock
price is overrated. Big [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are afraid of investing in Google ,
showing a wait-and-see attitude. We see that unlike the actual GOOGLE
stock traded on NASDAQ, GOOGL G35 (the stock price in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of the gold
standard) is in a narrow range and its trend is bearish. At the same
time we see that its chart is nearing the upper limit of the narrow
range, which also implies that the stock price may retrace to the lower
limit of the channel in future.

 **Wave structure of GOOGL quotes**

![LiteForex: Long-term and medium-term technical analysis of Alphabet
\(Google\). Actual scenarios and trading plans Buyers’ and sellers’
nearest targets][5]

To confirm our fear of correction, let’s analyse the wave structure of
super cycles first. The chart above shows that the correction that
started after the 2008 crisis didn’t cross 0.232 fib of the first wave
of growth. So we may read this impulse as a beginning of the wave
structure.![LiteForex: Long-term and medium-term technical analysis of
Alphabet \(Google\). Actual scenarios and trading plans Buyers’ and
sellers’ nearest targets][6]

Having found the bottom of the second wave, we know the start point of
the third wave. Since the post-crisis growth continued without any
important corrections, it would be logical to represent the whole
impulse as a big single wave.  But that would contradict wave analysis.
We understand that the third wave shouldn’t go beyond 2.618 of the first
wave. This is the level of 1,000 USD per share. But in fact, the quotes
approached the level of 1,600 USD. If the third wave had closed near
2.618 fibonacci, we would read it as a long wave. In that case, the
fifth wave shouldn’t have exceeded the first one, but in fact it’s even
higher in absolute [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/).

So, this wave pattern is wrong and we need to get back to the scenario
that implies wave 3’s peak at 1.618. Most probably, the peak of wave 3
is located near 800 USD.

![LiteForex: Long-term and medium-term technical analysis of Alphabet
\(Google\). Actual scenarios and trading plans Buyers’ and sellers’
nearest targets][7]

At a closer look, a classic 5-wave structure is clearly seen as part of
the third impulse in the monthly chart above. It means we’ve estimated
the peak of wave 3 adequately.![LiteForex: Long-term and medium-term
technical analysis of Alphabet \(Google\). Actual scenarios and trading
plans Buyers’ and sellers’ nearest targets][8]

Thus, we have a wave pattern where the fourth wave ends at 672 USD and
then a long wave 5 begins developing. Based on Robert Prechter’s
[ratios][9], the long wave 5 is very likely to split the whole pattern
in two parts of 38.2 / 61.8. So, we may project the length of the whole
cycle so that its 0.382 fibonacci coincides with the end of wave 4.
After this simple exercise we see that the end of wave 5 is near the
level of 1,684 USD, which is pretty close to expert estimations of 1,653
USD.![LiteForex: Long-term and medium-term technical analysis of
Alphabet \(Google\). Actual scenarios and trading plans Buyers’ and
sellers’ nearest targets][10]

The estimated wave structure of a 5-wave impulse is displayed in the
monthly chart above. As we proved that wave 5 is long, its pattern
should be expected to be complex. We see there was a flat correction in
the second sub-wave of wave 5, which means the whole wave pattern is
extended in time. At the same time, correction Y was so powerful that
high volatility may be expected to continue.![LiteForex: Long-term and
medium-term technical analysis of Alphabet \(Google\). Actual scenarios
and trading plans Buyers’ and sellers’ nearest targets][11]

We see in the chart above that trading volumes are tending to reduce in
general, but March sale volumes stand out amidst pandemic panics. Right
afterwards, market volumes got even smaller. It means that it’s
speculative money and not institutional [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s that heats up the
market.![LiteForex: Long-term and medium-term technical analysis of
Alphabet \(Google\). Actual scenarios and trading plans Buyers’ and
sellers’ nearest targets][12]

Analysing [GOOGLE][13] stock on the weekly chart, we see clear bearish
signals:

  1. Divergence between MACD and the price chart
  2. Falling trade volumes during price growth
  3. Price exit above the control level of the vertical volume indicator
  4. False and squat bars on MFI histogram (violet and blue bars)
  5. Psychologically strong resistance level at 1,600 USD.

Thus, the market is overheated and the stock looks overbought in the
current circumstances.

 **Short-term trading plan**

![LiteForex: Long-term and medium-term technical analysis of Alphabet
\(Google\). Actual scenarios and trading plans Buyers’ and sellers’
nearest targets][14]

Thus, a bearish scenario is the most likely one in the short term. The
price per share may reach 1,436 USD in a few weeks. But considering a
significant retracement, stop is placed too far, beyond 1,600 USD.
Placing it below 1,600 USD is dangerous because of extremely high
volatility; not placing it at all is like committing a suicide. Thus,
the current risk/profit ratio is too high. We need to wait for a better
situation to open a short position. Sellers’ zone is from 1,560 to 1,600
USD.

 **Medium-term trading plan**

![LiteForex: Long-term and medium-term technical analysis of Alphabet
\(Google\). Actual scenarios and trading plans Buyers’ and sellers’
nearest targets][15]

The following scenario may suit buyers. The stock is quite likely to
pull back to 1,050 - 1,250 USD in the medium term. It’s a clear area for
long positions based on trading volumes and the long-term trend line.
Fundamentally, the stock looks good and better levels for buyers can
hardly be expected. Buying target is in the area of 1,700 - 1,800 USD.

I’d like to remind you that you can go long or short on this stock at
LiteForex. If you don’t trade, it’s time to start right now: the broker
is raffling fabulous prizes to celebrate its [15th anniversary][16].
Everyone can win!

I’m going to analyse some other big companies of the US stock market in
my next articles. Feel free to put forward any suggestions for analysis
in the comments section. Subscribe and keep in touch!

* * *

Good luck and profits, everyone!

Yours,

Michael @Hypov

 _I’d like to remind you that all materials are provided for educational
purposes only. They aren’t financial advice and don’t guarantee any
profits. All trading decisions you make are your responsibility only._

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][17]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][18] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of GOOG in real time mode

![Technical analysis of Alphabet \(Google\) stock][19]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/analysis-and-evaluation-of-alphabet-google-stock/
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=#GOOG&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/g35-asset-valuation-method-through-the-example-of-sp500/
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.14/GOOG_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=3c591d964bb3fd6c79793e18e3c5d5d2
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.14/GOOG_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=d86468565e956e43b20ac2a13b8cb602
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.14/GOOG_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=fe4c98b7d51d3cfa61b8cd9bb2346274
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.14/GOOG_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=a9bf7fb0bc6e4ca84ece1539b41fc7d4
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.14/GOOG_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=b96f53ce54c0d63edb8bd96a49b64d84
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/market-wave-theory-by-robert-prechter-part-5-fibonacci-geometry-and-ratio-analysis/
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.14/GOOG_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=d1090412596923d00871dfba9683e533
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.14/GOOG_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=fab41891927a16369302aa1ab2260914
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.14/GOOG_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=e031d5130a342e0c41ef8dfb1e1b3067
   13. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=#GOOG
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.14/GOOG_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=ad941bb5aaffc789681ce4b9cdcb42f0
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.14/GOOG_hypov_10.jpg?w=30&s=0e66548869aca0b18b167112f28f8d73
   16. www.liteforex.com/contests/dream-draw/?_ga=2.62491052.1027453424.1589809964-2095657289.1460018267
   17. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=technical-analysis-of-alphabet-google-stock&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   18. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=technical-analysis-of-alphabet-google-stock&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   19. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.14/GOOG_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=3f684f694060f62dcf404aab0f73df8c