+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-17"
description = "US dollar price forecast 17 August 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 17 August 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-08-17

2021-08-17

Dollar: where are rivals? Forecast as of 17.08.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Faster tapering of the US QE than the market currently expects, as well
as a better position of the US economy compared to major competitors,
support the [EURUSD][1] bears. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make
up a trading plan?

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

The US exclusivity is a good reason to buy the greenback. Furthermore,
the Fed is about to start scaling back the monetary stimulus. The US
stock indexes are rallying up, which signals the US economy's strength,
while other countries’ GDP a slowing down because of the Delta.
Therefore, the [EURUSD][1] rise looks controversial. The euro was up to
$1.18 as the USD longs, a record since March 2020, were exited, but the
growth looks more like a correction rather than a trend.

According to Commodity Futures Trading Commission data, US dollar net
long positions against six world’s major currencies have been increasing
for four consecutive weeks, although before that, speculators preferred
net shorts for 16 weeks. Under such conditions, bad [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) often leads to
sharp pullbacks but is unlikely to break the trend.

What country can challenge the USA? The euro area is unlikely to defeat
the COVID-19; the countries will have to put up with the virus, just
like ordinary flu or other diseases. They will vaccinate as many people
as possible but maintain social distancing measures. They will have to
manage new strains of the coronavirus and new waves of the pandemic. The
euro-area economic rebound in the second quarter seems to be temporary,
and the GDP growth should be slowing down in the future.

China is hit by floods and the Delta. Based on the exports, retail
sales, industrial production, and fixed-asset investment in China, the
Chinese GDP is about to decline. Yes, consumption can recover quickly
when the COVID-19 outbreak is over, but this doesn’t seem real so far.
At least, oil traders are selling rather than buying on fears of a
slowdown in Chinese demand. Divergence in the trends of the US stock
indexes and the black stuff proves the theory of the US exclusivity,
supporting the greenback.

###



 _Source_ _: Trading Economics_

Furthermore, the FOMC officials are talking about tapering the US QE, so
the [EURUSD][1] bulls are to face a disaster. Boston Federal Reserve
Bank President Eric Rosengren said he believed the standard was already
met for inflation, which is running slightly above the Fed’s 2% target.
If there is another strong labor market report, the US central bank will
begin to reduce its monthly asset purchases. The $120-billion-a-month
quantitative easing program should be completed by the middle of 2022.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

It took the Fed 10 months to get rid of QE last time, but then,
inflation was not so high, and the labor market looked weaker. In
addition, the central bank was seriously concerned about the rise in
Treasury yields due to the 2013 taper tantrum. Now, the process of
withdrawing the monetary stimulus may go faster, which will become an
additional driver of the US dollar's strengthening. In the short run, if
the [EURUSD][1] falls below the support at 1.1765, it will continue
going down to at least 1.174. I suppose traders would prefer to wait and
see ahead of the release of the FOMC July meeting’s minutes.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true