+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-05"
description = "Central Bank isn't afraid of falling US stock indexes"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Central Bank isn't afraid of falling US stock indexes"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-05

2021-03-05

I love you I'll kill you. Review as of 05.03.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Central Bank isn't afraid of falling US stock indexes

## Does Fed have enough patience?

Even before the 2020 crisis, asset managers accumulated total assets
worth $89 trillion, much bigger than the leading banks' balance or the
global economy's size. Not being at war with an arsenal that big would
be stupid. The problem is to find an enemy, but the latest financial
events suggest that problem is easily solvable. The main opponent of the
business sharks is the Fed that has armed them with huge monetary
stimuli. However, the Fed isn't hustling to ruin them.

The global economic debt has grown by $70 trillion since 2013. When
interest rates were at the [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) lows, the markets were calm. They
believed they would defeat the pandemic first, and then they will pay
off their debts. Unfortunately, the fast growth of US treasury yields
was an unpleasant surprise that caused real panics. The Central banks of
Australia and New Zealand had to use interventions as the local bond
markets' rates had shown the fastest monthly rally in the past 25 years.
Japan is talking about protecting the target range of +/-0.2% on 10-year
bond yields, and in Europe, the ECB is expected to step in. That's
predictable: they are not the US that can afford to live a happy and
wealthy life.

And why not? True, the greenback's consolidation and the steep growth of
bond yields unsettled emerging markets, but who forced them into
accumulating that volume of dollar-denominated debt? Who asked them to
buy out US stocks and chase after stock indexes as if they were trying
to catch a plane on a runway? It's time to test bulls' patience.

We aren't dealing with Reddit plankton that is tracking down
underestimated oversold stocks. We're dealing with large longs in stock
indexes, and $89 trillion is enough for rocking the boat and making all
jump out. The generation that has no idea the S&P 500 market can be
bullish will probably face the fact. They don't know what to do, looking
at the Fed with hope.

Jerome Powell must sometimes be thinking that he saved so many lives by
refusing to become a doctor. Why should he want to help speculators who
raised stock indexes to the top and started panicking? One should want
to hide but falls into a stupor instead and can barely move like that
claustrophobic lover that failed to hide in a wardrobe.

I think the Fed will have to step in if the rally of treasuries
continues. Up to then, asset managers will test the Central bank's
patience and threshold of pain, using the best argument: I can't agree
with you, so admit you are wrong. Does Fed have enough patience?







## Price chart of SPX in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )