+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-05"
description = "US dollar price forecast 5 March 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 5 March 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=18.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-05

2021-03-05

Dollar conquered the market. Forecast as of 05.03.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The increasing popularity of US assets and a rise in the safe-have
demand during the [S&P 500][1] correction allowed the EURUSD bears to
drop the price below 1.2. What is next? Let us discuss the Forex outlook
and make up a [EURUSD][2] trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

If the current US President were Donald Trump, he would instantly call
Jerome Powell an enemy of the United States. After the Fed Chair’s
speech, the US stock indexes are rolling down. The Fed doesn’t seem to
worry about a drop in the US stock index prices. Why should it? The US
economic recovery is far from being complete, and the [S&P 500][1] has
risen too high. The US stock benchmark is overvalued, so why shouldn’t
it go down into a correction? The drawdown in the US stock market
usually supports the [EURUSD][2] bears.

The unstable market has been shaken even stronger after Powell
reiterated his intention to keep easy-money policies in place, saying
the US is still a long way from the Fed’s goals of maximum employment
and inflation averaging 2% over time. The Fed focuses not on a single
component of financial conditions but on overall economic performance
aggregated data. The Fed chairman would be worried (that is, he is not
worried at the moment) about the turmoil in the financial markets or the
constant tightening of financial conditions, which would create
obstacles to the achievement of the Fed goals. Powell seems to want to
sound dovish, but when [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are worried, they can’t interpret his
hints correctly.

Treasury yields rose sharply, stocks hit another wave of sell-offs, and
the US dollar strengthened. Obviously, the [EURUSD][2] bears are
supported by both the growing attractiveness of US assets and the
increased demand for safe-haven currencies during the [S&P 500][1]
correction. Treasury yield spreads have grown over the past few weeks
compared to their Japanese and European peers, which especially strongly
affected the yen and the Swiss franc positions.

### Changes in the bond yield spreads



 _Source_ _: Financial Times_

Investors believe that the 10-year Treasury yield could be up to 1.75%
or even 2%, which encourages the USD bulls.

I believe the causes are more complex. Investors are frustrated that the
global economic recovery is slow, varied, and uneven. The vaccination is
relatively slow in the EU, where so far, only 8 doses have been given
for every 100 people, compared with 24 in the US and 32 in Britain.
Furthermore, the WHO has announced that in the euro-area, after six
weeks of decline, the number of new COVID-19 cases has begun to rise
again. That is why the markets doubt that the global economy will
recover soon. The situation is fueled by the greenback strengthening,
which tightens financial conditions in emerging markets, as they are
heavily dependent on dollar funding.

The USA looks like an island of stability in the global ocean of
turmoil. The US GDP could expand by 10% in the first quarter, and the
Treasury yield growth signals the US economy’s strength.

### Weekly [EURUSD][2] trading plan

The [EURUSD][2] won’t go up until there are any signs that the euro-area
economic and epidemiological conditions are improving. As I expected,
Jerome Powell’s speech sent the euro-dollar down below 1.2. If the price
breaks out the supports at 1.195 and 1.1935, the euro could drop to
$1.185-$1.188.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true