+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-08"
description = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week February 8"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week February 8"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-08

2021-02-08

Medium-term forecast for five cryptocurrencies as of 08.02.2021Roman
Onegin

I welcome my readers!

I have prepared a medium-term cryptocurrency forecast based on Elliott
wave analysis of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS, and Ripple. I offer
trading signals for each cryptocurrency pair.

The ETHUSD market seems to have completed the global zigzag. Therefore,
the Ethereum price should be trading the new downtrend during the next
few weeks.

The article covers the following subjects:

##  **Elliott wave Bitcoin analysis**

The BTCUSD market is forming the global impulse wave 1-2-3-4-5. The
first four sub-waves of this pattern have completed, and the price is
now rising in the final sub-wave 5. Wave 5 is composed of the sub-waves
of a smaller degree [1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5] and is unfolding as an impulse.
The price has sharply risen in the final sub-wave [5] and continues
going up. Let us explore the structure of [5] in more detail in the
eight-hour timeframe.

Four sub-waves (1)-(2)-(3)-(4) have completed in the impulse wave [5].
There is developing the sub-wave (5), which looks like an impulse. The
market has recently completed the bearish correction 4, which has a
complex structure of a double zigzag [w]-[x]-[y]. The Bitcoin price is
now rising in wave 5 that should be an ending diagonal. An approximate
trajectory of the Bitcoin future price movement is outlined in the
chart.

### Trading plan for [BTCUSD][1] for the week:

Buy 39171.50, TP 45500.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ethereum analysis**

The ETHUSD market is forming a global zigzag-shaped trend, which could
finish soon. The upward impulse wave A has completed, and the bearish
correction B has also completed as a triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z].
Next, there has started developing the upward impulse wave C. The market
has sharply risen in the final fifth wave of the C impulse, which should
have completed by now. Let us study the most recent section of the
Ethereum price chart in a shorter timeframe.

The most recent ETHUSD price chart shows that the final fifth wave of
the C impulse has completed as an impulse too. In January 2021, the long
corrective wave 4 completed as a skewed triangle. Next, wave 5 finished
the entire bullish trend. If the assumption is correct, there should
start a new bearish impulse in the next few days. The initial element of
the new bearish impulse is schematically outlined in the chart.

### Trading plan **[ETHUSD][2] **for the week:

Sell 1629.44, TP 1420.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Litecoin analysis**

The LTCUSD market continues forming a large ascending zigzag A-B-C. In
early 2020, the market finished the bearish corrective wave B, which has
a complex structure of a triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. Next, the
market started rising, forming the initial part of the upward impulse
wave C. Let us see the most recent chart section in more detail in the
eight-hour timeframe.

The market has completed the sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3]. The sideways
corrective wave 4 is currently unfolding as a contracting horizontal
triangle (a)-(b)-(c)-(d)-(e), which is about to finish soon. The zigzag-
shaped wave (e) should complete the triangle. Therefore, over the next
few weeks, the market will be forming the zigzag a-b-c, which could end
at a level of around 137.00. Next, the LTC price should start rising
again, as it is outlined in the chart.

### Trading plan for **[LTCUSD][3]**  for the week:

Sell 151.71, TP 137.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave EOS analysis**

The EOSUSD market is forming the bearish corrective wave B, which is an
element of the global zigzag. The B correction is unfolding as a triple
zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The first four parts of the pattern have
finished, and the final wave [Z] is still forming. The [Z] wave may
complete as a standard zigzag (a)-(b)-(c). Let us study the most recent
chart section in more detail in the eight-hour timeframe.

The two sub-waves have completed within the downward wave [Z]; they are
the (A) impulse and the upward corrective wave (B). The (B) wave looks
completed, so, the down impulse wave (C) should be developing over the
next few days. The price could break through the previous low and go
below level 2.39, marked by the impulse wave (A). Therefore, one could
enter sell trades in the current situation.

### Trading plan for **[EOSUSD][4]**  for the week:

Sell 3.40, TP 2.39

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ripple analysis**

The XRPUSD market is also forming the large upward zigzag A-B-C. The
first impulse wave A has completed. The corrective wave B is still
developing as a bearish triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The first
four parts of the zigzag have completed, and the final wave [Z} is
currently developing. Let us see the structure of the [Z] wave in more
detail in a shorter timeframe.

The down wave [Z] has a complex structure and may complete as a double
zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y). The re have completed the downward wave (W) and the
upward linking wave (X). Both waves are simple zigzag. The final wave
(Y) may be unfolding as a double zigzag, and there is forming its first
leg, the W wave. The Ripple price should be declining in the [c]
impulse, which will conclude the W wave at a level of 0.357.

### Trading plan for **[XRPUSD][5]** for the week:

Sell 0.425, TP 0.357

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-08022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-08022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus