+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-08"
description = "Euro price forecast 8 February 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 8 February 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-08

2021-02-08

Euro sees light at the end of the tunnel. Forecast as of
08.02.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The [EURUSD][1] surge seems to result from a weak US jobs report.
However, the reasons are more complex. Let us discuss the Forex outlook
and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

Vaccines are good, but what if the economic recovery depends on more
than just them? According to the University of Michigan research,
COVID-19 is a seasonal coronavirus, with a peak in late January - early
February. It is the reason for a decline in the number of coronavirus
cases, isn’t it? It takes time to develop immunity using Pfizer or other
companies' vaccines, and the epidemiological situation is already
improving. It is also true for those countries where the vaccination
campaign is slow. If so, is it time to buy the euro?

Investors remember the middle of 2020 when lifting a more severe
lockdown than in the US resulted in a rapid rebound of the European
economy and laid the foundation under the [EURUSD][1] uptrend. History
repeats itself, and if within the next four or six weeks the euro-area
countries begin to lift restrictions, deferred demand will push GDP up.
Considering that the pair got rid of ballast (net shorts for the US
dollar against six main competitors dropped to a seven-week low), it's
time to bet on the euro.

### Dynamics of GDPs in USA and euro area



 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

Furthermore, the speeches of the ECB officials should support the euro
uptrend. According to Christine Lagarde, the central bank remains
convinced that 2021 will be the year of the euro-area economic recovery.
The GDP rebound is delayed but not canceled. The Governor of the Bank of
Italy, Ignazio Visco, believes that Italy’s economy should rebound in
spring. Due to the pandemic, Italian GDP fell by 8.9%, and the national
debt rose to 160% of the economy's size. A political crisis has erupted
in the country, which can be overcome with Mario Draghi's help. __

Markets still rely on the former ECB president, who could drop the euro
by just a single word. The yield spread on Italian and German bonds
dipped below 1%, indicating a decrease in political risks. If Super
Mario manages to create a government with a solid parliamentary
majority, the money will flow into Italy.

### Dynamics of Italy-Germany Bond Yield spread



 _Source_ _: Financial Times._

A formal reason for the [EURUSD][1] surge at the end of the first week
of February has become the weak report on US employment. Joe Biden
announced that the US economy still suffers from a recession, and the
$1.9-trillion fiscal stimulus is necessary, which resulted in the [S&P
500][2] rally. At the same time, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s reduced the dollar longs amid
the concerns that it will take the US economy longer to recover.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

However, I believe that the reasons for the euro rise are more complex.
The seasonal nature of COVID-19 and the ECB's confidence that the euro-
area economy will rebound, although later than expected, encourages
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s to expect that the [EURUSD][1] uptrend will resume. I think
it’s time to stop selling the pair and think only about buying. The euro
rally will not be fast and easy, but the single European currency should
still grow in price. My suggestion to buy the euro when the price
reaches the [zone of $1.195 - $1.2][3] has been correct. We shall expect
the breakout of level $1.208. It is desirable that the bulls do not
break out the level at the first try. A repeated successful attack is
usually a more reliable signal for opening positions.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/euro-is-desperate-forecast-as-of-02022021/