+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-08"
description = "Silver price forecast 8 February 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Silver price forecast 8 February 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=18.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-08

2021-02-08

Silver bubble burst. Forecast as of 08.02.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The [XAGUSD][1] price fluctuations were breathtaking, but only traders
with a cool head managed to benefit from these movements. What's next?
Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly silver fundamental forecast

When is the proper time to make money in the market? During a recession
or a global economic recovery? When you walk with the crowd or against
it or maybe when trading the [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/)? The answer is simple: when you are
sure that speculation is doomed to failure. [A week ago][2], I said that
silver has no chance of continuing the rally driven by Reddit traders.
Encouraged by GameStop shares' success, the newbies decided to take on a
bigger deal and failed as a result. On the contrary, we made money.

The most rapid [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) growth of the precious metal since 2009 did not
confuse me. As a result of which the [XAGUSD][1] prices reached the
highest level in the last eight years. Reddit opinion shapers spoke of a
“short squeeze,” arguing that silver is overvalued as central banks
artificially suppress inflation. But what kind of net shorts can you
talk about if hedge funds hold longs? Yes, swap dealers are net sellers
of precious metals, but in this way, they ensure positions in the
physical assets market. Silver is not GameStop shares. It has a
different capitalization and a different approach to pricing. As soon as
the CME Group increased the size of the margin requirements for futures
contracts from $14.5 thousand to $16 thousand, the bubble burst.

The Reddit trader attack is not the only example of manipulation in the
silver market. Even bigger traders failed by selling precious metals—for
example, the Hunt brothers in 1979. Even though the three sons of the
Texas billionaire owned about a third of the reserves in non-government
sources, they could not keep prices high for a long time. In 1980,
[XAGUSD][1] collapsed as soon as the trading rules were changed.

Thus, the Reddit crowd's failed speculation allowed us to enter [short
trades][3] on growth in the direction above $30 per ounce and earn about
14% in a couple of days. But what to do with silver next? At first
glance, the rise in inflationary expectations in the United States is a
reason to buy the precious metal.

### Dynamics of inflation expectations in the United States

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The spread between the yield on 10-year US Treasuries and Treasury
inflation-protected securities' (TIPS) rates reached 2.21%, which is the
highest level since 2014. Gold and silver are generally seen as the best
hedge against inflationary risks, but in January, both precious metals'
positions were weak. The sector leader marked the worst opening of the
year in 10 years, and if it had not been for Reddit traders, silver
would hardly have appreciated the period in mid-winter.

### Weekly [XAGUSD][1] trading plan

Will the [XAGUSD][1] bulls return to the game? I believe the US dollar
should suggest the answer. Greenback in January - at the beginning of
February, was strong. However, as the European and other economies open
up due to the seasonal recession of COVID-19 and the vaccination
process, the USD is likely to weaken. If so, it will make sense to buy
silver on the breakout of resistance at $27.55-27.6 per ounce. The
potential for a rally will be determined by the Fed's willingness to
tolerate high inflation. If consumer prices in the United States fail to
accelerate properly, the precious metal will face the same fate as in
2012-2013.





## Price chart of XAGUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAGUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/silver-will-feed-the-wolves-of-wall-street-forecast-as-of-01022021/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/silver-will-feed-the-wolves-of-wall-street-forecast-as-of-01022021/