+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-08"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (8 February 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (8 February 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-08

2021-02-08

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 08.02.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Investors are waiting for the passage of a $1.9 trillion bailout bill
this month.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The WTI oil price continues to rise within the medium-term uptrend. The
target for purchases is Target Zone 5 [59.82 - 59.31]. The key support
is shifting to the levels [52.91 - 52.46].

The short-term oil trend also implies a buy. Last week closed under the
Gold Zone resistance [57.14 - 56.90]. However, the oil price is trading
above the zone today. If the price closes above the resistance level at
the US session, the zone will be considered broken out and the next
target will be Target Zone 3 [59.51 - 59.05].

It is reasonable to enter new oil long trades at strong support zones:
Additional Zone [56.30 - 56.19] and Intermediary Zone [55.17 - 54.94].
Wait for the correction and look for a buy pattern.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [56.30 - 56.19]. TakeProfit: 57.37. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [55.17 - 54.94]. TakeProfit: 57.37. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Last week, gold broke out the support level of 1818 and consolidated
below. The medium-term trend has reversed down, and the target for sales
is now Target Zone 2 [1759 - 1749]. Enter sales on correction at the
levels of 1840 - 1830.

Let's take a look at the chart of a shorter timeframe. It shows that the
short-term trend reversed down on Thursday last week. Target Zone [1775
- 1765] is the target for sales this week.

Favorable sale prices according to the pattern will be between
Additional Zone and Intermediary Zone [1811 - 1845].

The sell scenario will be revised if the bulls manage to break out the
resistance of 1845 and consolidate above.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in the zone of [1811 - 1845]. TakeProfit:
Target Zone [1775 - 1765]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

EURUSD is trading in the medium-term downtrend.

Last week, Nancy Pelosi, US House of Representatives Speaker, said: "I
hope the House of Representatives will be able to pass Biden's stimulus
plan through within two weeks. This relief bill is salvation".

Major traders are waiting for the passage of a $1.9 trillion bailout
bill this month, which could positively impact the US dollar. Thus, the
position of the euro will be shaken, and the fall will continue.

Look for new sales in the zone of ​​the trend key resistance [1.2128 -
1.2112] with the target at Target Zone 2 [1.1981 - 1.1962].

The short-term timeframe shows that the euro is trading in the short-
term downtrend. Now the traders are testing the key resistance [1.2040 -
1.2032]. Look for patterns to open short trades with the target at last
week's low.

An alternative buy option is the breakout of the IZ and the closing of
the US trading session higher. In this case, look for purchases at
strong supports with the target in the upper Target Zone [1.2128 -
1.2112].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.2040 - 1.2032].
TakeProfit: 1.1954. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-08022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-08022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus