+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-29"
description = "Forecast for USD price for 29 October 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for USD price for 29 October 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-29

2020-10-29

November in Forex: will there be a disaster? Forecast for GBPUSD,
EURGBP, EURJPY, AUDJPY, NZDJPY, AUDUSD, NZDU...Dmitri Demidenko

The end of the autumn may decide the pound’s fate. At the same time, the
global stock market’s reaction to the US presidential election will
clear the prospects of the euro, the Australian and New Zealand dollars,
and other G10 currencies. Let’s make a trading plan.

## Monthly fundamental forecast for the dollar

October shows this whole year’s peculiarities of Forex trading. The
market seems to be sensitive to seasonal factors, but an unexpected
event then spoils everything for the fans of statistical analysis with a
fundamental bias. All was good until October’s last week: the bets on
the euro, the pound sterling, and the NZ dollar looked successful. Even
the Australian dollar wasn’t upsetting. But in the end, it’s the
greenback that regained superiority at the end of October, which isn’t a
sign of efficient trading.

In November 1975-2019, the US dollar, the kiwi, the euro, the Swissie,
and the Aussie closed most often in the green zone. The pound, the
loonie, the yen, and the Scandinavian currencies felt the worst.
Interestingly, the Japanese yen, the Swiss franc, and the Swedish krona
were most often the outsiders after US elections. The first two
currencies are considered safe-haven assets whose rate usually falls
when global risk appetite grows.

### Growth/fall streaks

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex’ calculations_

The US shares are very likely to rise in November regardless of who wins
the election. If Joe Biden becomes President, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s will hope for a
massive fiscal stimulus. If Donald Trump wins, concerns about a new
trading war will move the capital from Asia to the USA, which will
positively impact the [S&P 500][1], like it was in 2016.

According to median estimates, October’s favorites are the greenback,
the AUD, the NZD, and the euro. The losers are the British pound, the
Norwegian krone, and the Canadian dollar. The last two currencies are
closely connected with oil, while the Democrats’ victory may cause new
troubles to the black gold.

### Average and median values

###

###

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex’ calculations_

The pound would lose more than 2%, the yen - 1.7%, and the franc - 1.6%
on unfavorable streaks. On winning streaks, the Australian dollar would
grow 2.3% on average, the NZ dollar - 2.4%, the euro - 2.1%.

### Quotes’ moves during growth/fall periods

###

###

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex’ calculations_

### Monthly trading plan for G10 currencies

Based on statistics, a no-deal Brexit will make the [GBPUSD][2] collapse
and the [EURGBP][3] - grow if Britain and the EU fail to make an
agreement. I don’t want to believe that. The double recession concerns
may drop [Brent][4] and [WTI][5] and continue the rally of the
[USDCAD][6] and the [USDNOK][7].

Joe Biden’s victory will be a boon for the global and US stock markets
and will allow us to open long positions in the [EURJPY][8],
[AUDJPY,][9] [NZDJPY][10], and [USDCHF][11]. If Donald Trump
unexpectedly wins, we should sell Australian and NZ dollars amid
expectations of a new China-US trading war as those currencies are
closely connected with China. The greenback will become a favorite in
that case, confirmed by statistical analysis with a fundamental bias.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][12]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][13] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURGBP&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=UKBrent&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USCrude&returnUrl=true
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCAD&returnUrl=true
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDNOK&returnUrl=true
   8. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURJPY&returnUrl=true
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDJPY&returnUrl=true
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NZDJPY&returnUrl=true
   11. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCHF&returnUrl=true
   12. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=november-in-forex-will-there-be-a-disaster-forecast-for-gbpusd-eurgbp-eurjpy-audjpy-nzdjpy-audusd-nzdusd-usdcad-usdnok-and-usdchf-as-of-29102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   13. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=november-in-forex-will-there-be-a-disaster-forecast-for-gbpusd-eurgbp-eurjpy-audjpy-nzdjpy-audusd-nzdusd-usdcad-usdnok-and-usdchf-as-of-29102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus