+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-29"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (29 October 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (29 October 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-29

2020-10-29

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 29.10.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The sell pattern with the target at Target Zone [37.34 - 36.72] worked
out on the oil chart.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The sell pattern with the target at Target Zone [37.34 - 36.72] worked
out on the oil chart. Since the lower border of the flat is reached,
look for longs according to the pattern with the target at the upper
Target Zone [41.67 - 40.92].

As part of the short-term downtrend, the oil price came close to its
main target - [36.53 - 36.02]. You can start partially closing the
trade.

The resistance zones have to be redrawn from the local low. The
Additional Zone moves to the levels [38.20 - 38.07], and the
Intermediary Zone moves to the levels [39.60 - 39.35].

If the price corrects and starts testing these resistances, then look
for new shorts according to the pattern with the goal of updating the
local low.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [38.20 - 38.07]. TakeProfit:  36.81. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [39.60 - 39.35]. TakeProfit:  36.81. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Yesterday the gold price went down to the support area [1890.5 -
1882.5]. Traders failed to consolidate below the level and this
indicates a possible upward impulse to the key resistance of the trend
[1951.0 - 1941.7].

The short-term trend for gold remains upward. Yesterday there was a deep
correction and the breakout of Additional Zone [1902.7 - 1899.8]. The
key support level of the trend [1880.7 - 1875.4] was tested.

Today I suggest looking for longs from the key support level. To do
this, wait for a pattern that will show the entry point and the place
where to put a stop-loss.

If you want to short, the price has to be below the Intermediary Zone
during the closing of the American trading session. In this case, the
short-term trend will change to a downward one.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1880.7 - 1875.4].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1951.0 - 1941.7]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

There is a correction to the medium-term upward trend. At the moment,
the price is testing the trend line. The trend line is a strong support
level. Consider longs with the goal of updating the local high.

Also, look for longs in Target Zone [1.1648 - 1.1625].

The American trading session closed just below the Intermediary Zone
[1.1764 - 1.1753] yesterday, as seen on the chart of a smaller
timeframe. Now the price is being traded in the support zone.

Here's the question: did sellers really reverse the short-term trend
yesterday? I cannot answer this question now because we may face a
"trap" for sellers.

I suggest looking at the first impulse in the European trading session.
If the impulse is downward, look for shorts with the target at the lower
Target Zone [1.1648 - 1.1625]. If the impulse is upward, then consider
opening longs with the target at the upper Target Zone [1.1943 -
1.1920].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1764 - 1.1753].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1943 - 1.1920]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-29102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-29102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus