+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-23"
description = "Euro price forecast 23 February 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 23 February 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-23

2021-02-23

Euro: forewarned is forearmed. Forecast as of 23.02.2021Dmitri Demidenko

If you can’t control the causes, you will hardly influence the
situation. The ECB’s attempt to stop the growth of the global bond
market yields is doomed to a failure. How will it affect the
[EURUSD][1]? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading
plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

The ECB’s warning shots do not encourage the [EURUSD][1] bears. The euro
bulls prefer to spot the signals about the recovery of the euro-area
economy. Strong Germany IFO business climate index is a stronger
argument for the euro buyers than Christine Lagarde's statement that the
European Central Bank is closely monitoring the euro-area bond yields.
If European bond yields continue growing, the euro-area financing
conditions could deteriorate, setting back the euro-area GDP recovery.
However, the bond markets do not depend on only the ECB.

Lagarde noted that that the yield on sovereign bonds is essential, as
banks use it as a benchmark when establishing the cost of loans to
households and firms. Therefore, the central bank "is closely monitoring
the evolution of longer-term nominal bond yields." However, I believe
the reasons lie much deeper. An increase in debt market rates makes
European assets more promising, which contributes to the capital flow
from the US into the euro area, supporting the [EURUSD][1] growth.
According to UniCredit, if the euro-area bond yields continue growing,
it’ll leave the ECB no choice but to step up the QE. The European
Central Bank has already increased the weekly pace of bond purchases to
€17.2 billion under the pandemic purchase program, the most since the
week ended January 15.

However, if the ECB can’t control the causes, it can’t radically affect
the situation. The bond yields are growing elsewhere in the world amid
the expectations of the US GDP rebound. Bloomberg raised its US growth
forecast for 2021 from 3.5% to 4.6%, suggesting it could be revised up
to 6%-7% if Congress approves Joe Biden's $ 1.9 trillion fiscal stimulus
package. Besides, the Fed officials try to convince [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s that they
are not worried about Treasury yields rally since it reflects the US
economy’s strength.

The current situation has a lot in common with the events of 2013 when
the US bond rates were also growing, but there was still a long time
before the federal funds rate hike. The FOMC now expects it will not
change the interest rates until 2023, and the asset purchase program at
a monthly pace of $ 120 billion will continue.

### Dynamics of federal funds rate and US 10-year Treasury yield

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Jerome Powell is likely to confirm the Fed’s position in the speech
before Congress. If the Fed Chair sounds dovish, the US dollar should
further weaken.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

The ECB’s warning shots failed because the decline in the euro-area bond
yields, which resulted from Lagarde's speech, led to a rise in the euro-
area stock indexes. Their US peers, including the [Nasdaq Composite][2],
went down. If [S&P 500][3] has been above its pre-pandemic level for a
long time, the [EuroStoxx 50][4] has not reached the level it was
trading before the recession. The euro-area equities are undervalued, so
they could gain strong momentum if the lockdowns are lifted and the
euro-area GDP rebounds. If the [EURUSD][1] breaks out the resistance at
1.218, it will continue rallying up towards 1.221 and 1.2245.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NQ&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SX5E&returnUrl=true