+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-23"
description = "Forecast for the pound's price for 23 February 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for the pound's price for 23 February 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-23

2021-02-23

Four reasons for buying pound. Forecast as of 23.02.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The British pound tops the list of the year's best performers on large-
scale vaccination, better appetite risk, and other factors. Will the
[GBPUSD][1] continue to rally? Let's discuss that and make a trading
plan.

## Monthly fundamental forecast for pound

The winner isn't the one who doesn't make mistakes. It's the one who
recognizes them, corrects them, and profits from experience. Great
Britain shot itself in the foot in 2016 by voting to break connections
with its leading trade partner. However, it didn't shoot itself in the
head, making an agreement with the EU at the last moment in 2020. First,
Boris Johnson didn't realize coronavirus was a serious thing, which led
to enormous death tolls and the biggest recession in 300 years. Still,
one of the world's most extensive vaccination campaigns redeemed that
mistake and turned the pound into the winner.

 **The**[ **GBPUSD**][1] topped the value of 1.5 for the first time in
three years on mitigation of Brexit-associated political risks and
vaccination of 18.4 million people, equivalent to 27.5% of the
population. For comparison, 19.3% is vaccinated in the USA and 6.1% - in
the European Union. The pound is the best performer of the year among
the world's major currencies. Speculators are building up their long
positions even if they weren't optimistic in early January. NatWest
Market predicts the level of 1.45 in the nearest future, while Equiti
Capital estimates that the pound may return to the pre-referendum levels
in 2021.

### Major currencies in 2021

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The global stock market's growth and the monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) support the
pound too. The [GBPUSD][1] correlation with the [FTSE 100][2] has grown
significantly from the beginning of the year. It means that global
appetite growth helps the pound. The UK stock index outran the [S&P
500][3] in dollar equivalent. It draws capital into Great Britain and
consolidates the pound. I don't understand why the pair's rally should
worsen exporters' positions and affect British stocks. In fact, the
pound's trade-weighted rate is far from the pre-referendum levels.
Before starting to create trouble for local businesses and the [FTSE
100][2], it can afford to rise.

### Trade-weighted pound's dynamics

###

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Also, remember that the Bank of England's position has changed. Not long
ago, it was thinking about negative rates and urged commercial banks to
get prepared for them. However, Q2 GDP upbeat forecasts make us doubt
that idea's adequacy. [GBPUSD][1] bulls and [EURGBP][4] bears may find
new inspirations as the Fed's and the ECB's monetary policies are
unlikely to change in the nearest future, and the BoE will give up plans
to drop the REPO rate into the red zone. What's more, British inflation
expectations are growing faster than other countries' ones, including
the USA.

### Britain's and US' inflation expectations

###

 _Source: Bloomberg._

### Monthly trading plan for [ **GBPUSD**][1]

Thus, the [GBPUSD][1] has got every reason to continue surging to 1.42
and 1.44: such negative factors as excessive Brexit-associated risks
have been removed, active vaccination continues, the appeal of British
assets is growing, and the Bank of England has changed its position. My
advice is to buy the pair.



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=FTSE&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURGBP&returnUrl=true