+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-23"
description = "Technical analysis of US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD for today (23 February 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis of US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD for today (23 February 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-23

2021-02-23

Short-term analysis for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 23.02.2021Alex
Rodionov

My fellow traders,

Here's my forecast for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD that I made using
margin zones and classical technical analysis. Based on this analysis, I
made a list of entry signals for intraday traders.

The EURUSD started this week on a rising note. The price got into the
resistance area of [1.2180 - 1.2150].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil Forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The idea of selling oil didn't prove to be correct. The price broke out
resistance in Target Zone 5 [59.86 - 59.31] and steadied above. The
ascending medium-term trend continues. The next target is Target Zone 6
[64.92 - 64.41].

The first-priority downward pattern wasn't confirmed yesterday. As a
result, the trend key resistance of [61.05 - 60.83] was broken out. The
short-term trend became ascending.

Today, the price has approached buyers' main target - Target Zone [63.54
- 63.09]. We can now see the quotes slightly retreating from the local
highs.

If there are some attractive prices in the area of [61.05 - 60.43]
during the correction, we should open long positions accordong to the
pattern.

### Trading plan for [USCrude][1] for today:

Buy according to the pattern starting from the zone of [61.05 - 60.43].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [63.54 - 63.09]. StopLoss: According to pattern
rules

* * *

## Gold forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold corrects in the resistance area of [1821 - 1815]. I suggest
considering short positions in the framework of a medium-term downtrend
with a target at last week's low.

The short-term trend is downward. The price has reached the trend limits
at [1821 - 1815] during the Asian session today. As long as the price
stays in that area, short positions with the target at last week's low
will be profitable, according to the pattern.

Once the level of 1821 is broken and the US session closes higher, we
will buy gold. We will then have a shift to an uptrend, and the upper
Target Zone [1881 - 1870] will be a target for long positions.

### Trading plan for [XAUUSD][2] for today:

Sell according to the pattern from Intermediary Zone [1821 - 1815].
TakeProfit: 1760. StopLoss: According to pattern rules

* * *

## Today’s forecast for the EURUSD: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD started this week on a rising note. The price got into the
resistance area of [1.2180 - 1.2150]. The level of 1.2180 is the key
value; after its breakout the medium-term trend will shift to an
uptrend, and we will consider long positions up to Target Zone 2 [1.2288
- 1.2272]. Until that happens, short positions remain relevant.

The recommendation that we buy the euro starting from the area of
[1.2104 - 1.2100] is confirmed. The price follows the priority pattern
in a short-term uptrend. The pair's growth target is Target Zone [1.2200
- 1.2183].

Once it's reached, check the market's reaction. If the zone is broken
and the pair consolidates above, the euro will continue rising and most
probably reach Gold Zone [1.2271 - 1.2263].

Strong support levels for today: Additional Zone [1.2137 - 1.2133] and
Intermediary Zone [1.2097 - 1.2089]. Consider new long positions from
the support levels according to the pattern.

### Trading plan for [EURUSD][3] for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern from Additional Zone [1.2137 - 1.2133]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.2200 - 1.2183]. StopLoss: According to pattern rules
  2. Buy according to the pattern from Intermediary Zone [1.2097 - 1.2089]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.2200 - 1.2183]. StopLoss: According to pattern rules

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-23022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-23022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus