+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-15"
description = "Pound price forecast 15 July 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 15 July 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-07-15

2021-07-15

Pound conducts experiment. Forecast as of 15.07.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Despite the deteriorating epidemiological situation, Boris Johnson is
not going to refuse to fully open the economy. How will this experiment
end? How will it affect [GBPUSD][1]? Let us discuss the Forex outlook
and make up a trading plan

## Weekly pound fundamental forecast

The British hawks are not asleep! Looking at the acceleration of
inflation to a 3-year high of 2.5%, Sir David Ramsden echoed the words
of retiring chief economist Andy Haldane that consumer prices could
accelerate to 4% by the end of 2021, twice the target of the central
bank. The MPC member believes that the conditions for tightening
monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) could be met somewhat earlier than he expected. The
GBPUSD price soared to the top of the 38th figure, but the bulls' joy
was short-lived.

The rapid acceleration of inflation from 0.4% in February to 2.5% in
June became a kind of test of the strength of the BoE, most of whose
officials speak of the transient nature of high consumer prices.
Nevertheless, BoE Deputy Governor Jon Cunliffe said that it is necessary
to understand whether the factors that affect CPI are temporary. In his
opinion, such things are happening not only in the UK, but all over the
world.

### Inflation dynamics in the UK

 _Source: Bloomberg._

If high inflation is long-term, the central bank will have to abandon
its large-scale asset purchase program and start raising the interest
rate earlier than the market expects. According to the National
Institute of Economic and Social Research, this will be the case. The
organization predicts inflation to be 3.25% by June 2022, as the
cancellation of the VAT cut will give new impetus to prices.

History shows that any periods of long-term high inflation were
initially perceived as temporary. The refusal of the Fed and the Bank of
England from this mantra is fraught with the strengthening of the US
dollar and sterling against major world currencies. However, the pound
has one weak point, which is likely to prevent it from growing as fast
as the greenback.

Namely, the full opening of the UK economy, scheduled for July 19.
Despite the warning from doctors that in this scenario, the number of
hospitalizations will reach 1-2 thousand, and the number of deaths - up
to 200 per day in August, Boris Johnson does not want to abandon this
idea. If the experiment succeeds, it will be an important factor in
[terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of confidence in a broad and sustainable global economic recovery.
If not, the introduction of new lockdowns would be a disaster for the
[GBPUSD][1] bulls.

Sterling is again faced with binary results, however, the GBP is used to
it. Will Scotland leave the UK and the UK leave the EU? Will the Brexit
transition period be prolonged? Will the deal be concluded between
London and Brussels at the very last moment? Will the experiment with
the full opening of the UK economy succeed?

### Weekly [GBPUSD][1] trading plan

The unstable US dollar also adds to the uncertainty in the movement of
the GBPUSD pair. The USD either strengthens in response to the rise in
CPI to 5.4%, then it falls due to Jerome Powell's dovish statements. In
such conditions, breakout strategies are the best option for traders. A
successful test of resistance at 1.39 may be a reason for entering
purchases, while a breakout of the support at 1.38 by the bears can
serve as a signal for [GBPUSD][1] sales.



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true