+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-15"
description = "US dollar price forecast 15 July 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 15 July 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-07-15

2021-07-15

Dollar is a liar. Forecast as of 15.07.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Traders know that holding on to old ideas is like wearing the same
clothes all the time, both in winter and summer. Someday you will have
to change your look. When will the Fed understand this fact? How will it
affect the dollar? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a
[EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

Investors will be worried until the US inflation starts declining. If it
remains high, the Fed will have to take the necessary steps. Senators
attacked the Fed Chair, and he did not manage to calm them down with the
help of the mantra about the temporary nature of high inflation and the
statement that QE would last for a very long time. However, Powell
managed to reassure the financial markets. Stock indexes rose, Treasury
yields fell, and [EURUSD][2] bulls won back some of their earlier
losses.

In fact, there were many contradictions in Powell’s speech before the
Senate Banking Committee. He urged Americans to trust the central bank
so that the fears of high inflation would not become a self-fulfilling
forecast but admitted that the Fed was wrong. Inflation turned out to be
higher than expected and slightly more resilient. Consumer prices in
June increased by 5.4%, producer prices - by 7.3%. In the latter case,
we are talking about a record value since the records started in 2010.

### Dynamics of US producer prices



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Jerome Powell said that there is still a long way to go before tapering
QE but noted that the central bankers have one more meeting to discuss
this topic. In two weeks. Is it a hint that the announcement of the
monetary stimulus cut will be made in Jackson Hole in August? Or will
they announce monetary tightening in September at the next FOMC meeting?

The Fed President claims that the high inflation resulted from supply
problems that have led to a shortage of goods amid the increasing
demand. When the supply problems are solved, prices should stabilize.
However, he could not explain how bond purchases under the QE will solve
the supply shortage problem.

All this, in my opinion, means uncertainty. FOMC doves, including Jerome
Powell, are beginning to doubt the temporary nature of inflation
acceleration. How long will it take for them to start worrying about the
period of long-lasting high prices? A month or two? In autumn,
employment will grow much faster than now, and inflation due to higher
rents will not slow down. If so, the greenback will again become the
king of Forex. At present, however, the euro has a chance to resist.

Joe Biden continues to promote the new fiscal stimulus plan for $ 3.5
trillion, which supports the US stock indexes and global risk appetite.
Furthermore, China's GDP report is positive. Yes, in the second quarter,
the Chinese economy slowed down from 18.3% to 7.9%, but in the first
half of the year, it grew by 12.7%. China clearly does not require
additional stimulus to meet its annual GDP target of 6%.

### Dynamics of China’s GDP



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

### Weekly [EURUSD][2] trading plan

Therefore, the [EURUSD][2] bulls could go ahead in the short term. The
upward correction could start if the euro breaks out the resistance at
$1.188. In the medium- and long-term outlook, the trend is bearish, so
it is relevant to sell on the rise.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true