+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-22"
description = "Pound price forecast 22 July 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 22 July 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-07-22

2021-07-22

Pound breaks protocol. Forecast as of 22.07.2021Dmitri Demidenko

It seems to the UK authorities that its territorial integrity is being
violated, the EU sees grounds for smuggling into its internal market. A
compromise seems to have been found, but, as it turned out, not everyone
is satisfied with it. How does this affect [GBPUSD][1]? Let us discuss
the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan

## Weekly pound fundamental forecast

The British pound is showing incredible flexibility in the second half
of July. The breakout of the support at 1.38, which [I recommended][2]
to use for [GBPUSD][1] sales, contributed to the pair's deep decline.
GBPUSD even reached the first of the two [previously][3] set targets at
1.365, after which it sank almost one more figure. This was followed by
a sharp rise amid improved global risk appetite and US stock indices
recovery. Societe Generale believes that if US stocks continue to sell
off, [EURGBP][4] will soar to 0.87. In the meantime, the sterling's
losing streak against the euro has stopped at the 5-day mark and has
become the longest since September.

### Pound vs euro dynamics



 _Source: Bloomberg._

The main drivers of the pound's fall were the speculators' exit from the
positions related to expectations of the BoE monetary restriction, as
well as the return of the Brexit theme. Official London has declared
that it can no longer tolerate the EU's excessive bureaucracy. Under a
previous agreement, goods moving from the UK to Northern Ireland are
subject to customs checks and procedures as if they were moving to the
EU. The number of regulatory checks currently required on goods arriving
into Northern Ireland from Great Britain equates to 20% of the total
undertaken by the entire EU, although the population of Northern Ireland
is only 0.5% of the EU's total population.

As a result, London made Brussels an offer that can only be refused. The
UK has proposed to end inspections of products that are labeled
exclusively for use in Northern Ireland. The system will be controlled
by the UK, although it is committed to providing the EU with access to
the data. Of course, Brussels refused. The EU is not going to return to
negotiations that have already been completed.

A few months ago, Boris Johnson called the Brexit deal brilliant, and
now he renounces it. Is this a signal to the rest of the world?
Undoubtedly! It turns out that signing contracts with the UK is useless.
The resumption of political risks contributed to a strong pound fall.
However, thanks to the improved global risk appetite, the GBPUSD pair
managed to rebound from the bottom. But before the conflict over
inspections in Northern Ireland, UK foreign trade with the European
Union was recovering faster than with the rest of the world.

### UK export dynamics



 _Source: Bloomberg._

The global economic recovery is extremely important for currencies,
whose issuing central banks are signaling about monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)
normalization. If things go wrong and global GDP growth stalls, the
regulators will have to change plans. At the same time, the hold of the
longs will cause serious damage to the Canadian and New Zealand dollars,
the Norwegian krone, and the pound. In this regard, the fall of the [S&P
500][5] is a strong argument in favor of selling these currencies, while
the rise in the stock index gives grounds for purchases.

### Weekly [GBPUSD][1] trading plan

In my opinion, the return of the Brexit topic will continue to put
pressure on [GBPUSD][1]. So if the price doesn't to break out levels of
1.375 and 1.3825 it will be relevant to enter sales.







## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/pound-conducts-experiment-forecast-as-of-15072021/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/boe-doesnt-keep-promises-forecast-as-of-08072021/
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURGBP&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true