+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-22"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 22.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 22.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 22, 2020

June 22, 2020

Euro is to play a new cardDmitri Demidenko

## Concerns about changes in the EU fiscal stimulus and the requirements
of the German court don’t discourage the EUR/USD bulls

The euro area can wait, but will the euro wait? According to Dutch Prime
Minister Mark Rutte, the EU may need more time to agree on the fiscal
stimulus. At the EU June summit, the European governments decided to
reach a deal on the huge fiscal stimulus before the end of July. The
four countries, which oppose the €750 billion aid package proposed by
the European Commission and the additional budget of €1.1 trillion to
help the EU recover from the coronavirus pandemic, and the supporters of
the French-German plan may need one or two additional rounds of talks to
find a compromise. The euro will hardly go stronger amid the uncertainty
that emerged.

The majority of the EU member states and the so-called “Frugal Four”,
the Netherlands, Sweden, Denmark, and Austria, cannot reach an agreement
on the matters of the program scope, the share of grants and loans in
its structure, how quickly money should be received and returned, and
whether it is worth introducing new taxes or raising old ones to pay off
arising debts. There were strong disputes among the EU governments,
however, the relations have improved recently. The risks of the conflict
escalation were pressing the [EUR/USD][1] down over 4 out of 5 past
Forex trading days. Bulls were concerned about the corrections in the
financial aid package, and even if the worst has been avoided, the
uncertainty emerged is a negative factor for the euro.

The euro will be in the spotlight in the week through June 26. Investors
expect Markit PMI report and the Ifo Business Climate indicator for
Germany, as well as the publication of the last ECB meeting’s minutes.
It is expected that Christine Lagarde and her colleagues will
demonstrate maximum transparency regarding the conditions and
effectiveness of the emergency asset purchase program, which, as you
remember, was increased by €600 billion. The transparency, according to
the new member of the German Constitutional Court Astrid Wallrabenstein,
is necessary for the ECB to fulfill the request made by Germany’s
highest court to justify the QE. Before the change, there was a slight
majority of Eurosceptics in the court. The situation may change for the
better now. The better for the euro.

In my opinion, the euro bulls should now play the factor of a faster
rebound of the European GDP compared to the US growth. The economic
surprise index is the lowest in the euro area among the G-10 countries.
The indicator may now start rising, which should support the
[EUR/USD][1] growth.

 **Economic surprise indices**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 22.06.2020][2]

 _Source: Nordea Markets_

If the reports on the euro-area PMI and the German Business Climate are
positive, one could again buy the euro on the breakout of the resistance
at $1.1245-$1.125, or on the rebound from the supports at $1.1155 and
$1.1125. Unless, of course, the US stock market doesn’t drop. The US
stock market has followed the [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) about the coronavirus pandemic
lately. With this regard, the second-highest number of confirmed
coronavirus cases in the US suggests selling the S&P 500, while the
improved epidemiological situation in China and the lower death rate in
the US encourages traders to buy.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Euro is to play a new card][5]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/index-surprise-22-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=885a70236784e7aa7a6e3e65ce0d7c96
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-is-to-play-a-new-card&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-is-to-play-a-new-card&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-22-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=86c60c21e9de9f615a3ecf7759b8eab8