+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-22"
description = "get to know where the market will go"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "get to know where the market will go"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 22, 2020

June 22, 2020

Trading signalsArtem Parshin

## Forex trading signals are one of the simplest and most efficient ways
to make money on Forex.

This article deals with [Forex trading](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/) signals. Can you trust these forex
signals? How to correctly use trading signals and where can we find
them? I will also explain a real example of making a forex trade based
on trading signals. The Forex trader signals are provided for each
LiteForex client in the trader profile.

### Forex trading signals

A trading signal in [Forex trading](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/) is basically a clue to a trader that
the price may go in a particular direction at a certain moment. Trading
signals can be fundamental and technical. Fundamental signals are
trading ideas or recommendations provided by another trader or an
analyst, they are based on fundamental analysis. This is generally
insider information. Someone learns secret information and shares it
with you, and you enter a trade based on this information. A technical
forex signal is a signal delivered by a technical indicator (an Expert
Advisor, an oscillator and so on).

Ordinary traders hardly ever have any access to fundamental signals, as
this information is available to a small group of people. It is far
easier to learn technical signals based on technical analysis. They are
free forex signals in special sections on trading platforms. Of course,
you can receive a signal directly from a professional trader, but these
signals are usually paid for.

There are special [website](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/website-for-forex-trading/)s designed to sell trading signals provided by
traders. The most popular platform has recently been Zulu, but now
traders less and less tend to buy trading signals. Free trading signals
provided by private analytical agencies or [Forex broker](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/best-forex-broker-for-beginners/)s are now getting
more popular.

### What are trading signals used for?

The relevance of trading signals has always been very high. Everybody
wants to know in advance where the price will go and what trade should
they enter. To solve this task, there were created special mathematical
indicators, oscillators. Although there quite many types of oscillators,
it is rather difficult for a trader to interpret what signal is
delivered by the oscillator and how reliable this signal is.

To help a trader and save the time, modern trading signals were designed
to combine the indications of major oscillators, which, in addition to
the signal itself, indicate the trade direction, potential price
movement, signal’s relevance; they also relate to the time frame. So,
this tool provides much more trading opportunities.

Therefore, a modern trader can learn where the price will go shortly
without attaching to the chart dozens of oscillators and trying to
filter the signals. All this is performed by software. A trader just
gets the final result and needs only to decide on whether to follow the
recommendation or not.

Much good work is going on to make the trading signal services simpler
and more convenient. One of the leading companies in this area is
LiteForex.

### How to use trading signals?

Let us see how you can use trading forex signals that are conveniently
integrated into the trader’s profile.

![LiteForex: Forex signals: get to know where the market will go][1]

 **1.** There is the [ANALYTICS][2] tab in the left vertical panel of
the main menu in the trading account profile. When you click on the
Analytics tab, you are directed to the analytical portal, where you can
find not only trading signals, but also analytical materials, analysts’
opinions and interesting articles with individual forecasts of the
company’s analysts.

 **2.** Click on the Signals tab at the top of the page, it will direct
you to the section with trading signals;

 **3.** By default, there opens the Favorites tab that you can adjust to
your own needs. We are now interested in the general menu of trading
signals, so we choose the Currencies tab. Now, we see only real time
trading signals for currency pairs.

 **4.** First of all, we shall define the time frame where we want to
see trading signals and where we want to enter trades, it depends on the
trading strategy; let it be a short term trade.

 **5.** In addition to the name of currency pairs, there are some other
information sections, the most interesting is the Recommendation
section. It can be of four types (buy, active buy, sell, active sell).
Of course, active sell is a more reliable signal than just sell. So, it
is better to refer to the strongest signals. If you have no experience
in working with indicators, this section will be enough for you. If you
don’t have enough experience to perform price chart analysis on your own
and are in a constant search for trading signals, I would recommend you
to join a Social Trading platform. These networks allow you to copy the
trades of the experienced successful traders onto your account. Simply
put, you can instantly and automatically copy their trading behavior on
your account, without analyzing the forex markets, searching for signals
or calculating a take profit or a stop loss level. . Besides, you choose
the copy trader after analyzing his/her trading performance in the past,
the profits made over the past periods and the risk level. The list of
traders you can copy is here. Those who want to identify the reliability
of a signal by themselves should continue reading.

 **6.** Next, you can see the signals sent by 10 most relevant
indicators for the trading instrument we trade. The first four
indicators are MAs (moving averages). As this is a simple trend
following indicator, you shouldn’t trust its signals at all, you can
skip them right away. Next, there are more accurate oscillators that you
can refer to. The last three ones, (stochastic, Bill William’s
oscillator and zigzag) are in the list of top 5 best technical
indicators. The strength of the signals is presented as triangles, there
can be from one to three triangles. Three triangles mean the signal is
very strong. As a result, we see in real time the sell signal is strong
and we can enter a trade based on it.

 **7.** We select the [AUDCHF][3] currency pair that has delivered the
signal and click on its ticker;

![LiteForex: Forex signals: get to know where the market will go][4]

 **8.** There will open the Trade section for this pair, where you need
to enter a trade. By the time of execution, select the Now type;

 **9.** Next, click on the Sell type at the top of the menu, as there is
a sell signal;

 **10.** Chose the volume of the trade. The more you are sure in the
signal, the more you can invest in the trade. The signal is Active sell,
so we can spend 0.50 lots.

 **11.** Click on the Sell button;

 **12.** We have entered the trade, and there is an intermediate result
in the Current Change section. It is negative at the start because of
the commission fee.

![LiteForex: Forex signals: get to know where the market will go][5]

 **13.** Sometime later, in about 25 minutes, you see the price moving
down, and the trade is yielding a profit, so the signal was excellent.

 **14.** There is already a profit of more than 20 dollars in the
current change section.

![LiteForex: Forex signals: get to know where the market will go][6]

 **15.** If the profit of 22.68 USD is enough, and, taking into account
that we spent no effort to generate it, it is well enough...

 **16.** We can exit the trade and take the profit made.

 **17.** Here we are! It is now easy to make money using trading
signals, and it is profitable, which the most important.

If you look at the Trading Signals section, you will see there are
trading signals provided for all the trading instruments enlisted with
the broker. So, you can enter trades for multiple trading instruments,
and this will multiply your profit. Of course, some of the signals may
not work, but it won’t matter in the total mass as there will be much
more profitable signals than losing ones.

So, there have been enough words, it is time to do now! I hope that my
article will help you earn more money. So, try and you will certainly
succeed. If you have any questions, you can always ask me or
[LiteForex][7] staff members.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][8]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][9] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

![Trading signals][10]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/forex-trading-signals/sign-1en.png?w=30&s=1fa37859eff4b46cc81280011d123940
   2. my.liteforex.com/login/index
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDCHF
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/forex-trading-signals/sign-2en.png?w=30&s=04980e4e75569a6faeb131aa5ddc15a7
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/forex-trading-signals/sign-3en.png?w=30&s=5309d5c044daff119fa60dea232c97e7
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/forex-trading-signals/sign-4en.png?w=30&s=a031c2eea85da5d28382745b0f5e5544
   7. my.liteforex.com/traders/index
   8. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=trading-signals-2020-06-22&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=trading-signals-2020-06-22&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/blog_posts/forex-trading-signals/forex-trading-signals.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=41b14364e4091935a3331983ededfee7