+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-20"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 20.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 20.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 20, 2020

May 20, 2020

Dollar creates obstaclesDmitri Demidenko

## EUR/USD bulls are going ahead, but there are no gains without losses

The risk of the euro-area breakup was reduced as Germany and France
offered a €500-billion European recovery fund to support the EU
countries worst affected by the pandemic. This [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) encouraged
[EUR/USD][1] bulls. At the same time, the dispute between Democrats and
Republicans in the USA about the [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) and size of the fiscal stimulus
may support ….the US dollar. The greenback and the euro react to the
growing uncertainty in different ways. The dollar has benefits as a
safe-haven asset. In this respect, different approaches of the Fed and
the US administration to the US GDP recovery have set the [EUR/USD][1]
buyers back.

Speaking before the US Senate Banking Committee, the Treasury Secretary
Steven Mnuchin and the Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell offered
contrasting views of the US economic prospects. According to Steven
Mnuchin, the third quarter could be quite good, and the GDP can well
follow a V-shaped rebound. Jerome Powell, by contrast, says the fear of
the coronavirus will set the economic growth back. It will take a long
time until the US GDP completely rebounds. The same opinion, by the way,
is shared by the Congressional Budget Office, which expects the US GDP
in the fourth quarter of 2020 will be 5.6% lower than a year ago.

Different views of the Treasury and the Fed are not a new driver. The US
central bank has many times emphasized the necessity of an additional
fiscal stimulus. Democrats are willing to provide a total package of $3
trillion. However, Donald Trump is yet rejecting this bill. The US
President says that extra money given to the unemployed will discourage
them from the search for new jobs, which will hold the US GDP recovery
back. The US stock market is not confident in additional support, which
strengthens the US dollar.

The uncertainty of the S&P 500 is likely to be the major factor weighing
on the [EUR/USD][1]. The euro is stabilizing due to the offer by Angela
Merkel and Emmanuel Macron, the growth of the German indicator of
economic sentiment to its 5-year high, the ECB willingness to support
the euro-area economy, and the lower risks of the US-China trade war
escalation. As a result, the spread between the euro put and call
premiums has narrowed to the minimum value since March 17, and the euro-
dollar three-month risk reversals have entered the positive area.

 **Dynamic of German’s economic sentiment**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 20.05.2020][2]

 _Source: Financial Times._

 **Dynamics of euro risk reversals**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 20.05.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, in the 10 weeks ended
May 7, gross sales of U.S. corn and pork to China were up by eight
times, cotton exports were three times higher than they were in the same
period in 2017 before the trade war started, soybeans exports increased
by about 30%. China has significantly stepped up purchases of U.S.
agriculture products to avert the trade war escalation. This is a
positive factor for the export-led euro-area economy, and so, for the
euro. The [EUR/USD][1] bulls are willing to continue the rally up to
1.1055-1.107. However, the euro has many problems, which are likely to
create obstacles for the buyers.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar creates obstacles][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/zew-germany-20-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=f1104e813f843f4bfe4f1018eaa8b0d9
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/euro-risk-reversal-20-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=68aeb7dd112e6f0286e4f8099fc4fb4f
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-creates-obstacles&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-creates-obstacles&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-20-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=909bd43a5de00cb89be3d75b16fe74cc