+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-21"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 21, 2020

April 21, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.04.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

Oil is trading in the middle-term downtrend. Sellers were breaking
through the local lows, hitting fresh all-time lows yesterday. The
price, however, hasn’t been yet consolidated below Target Zone 2 [17.69
– 17.13].

If the US session closes below 17.13 today, the next downside target
will be in Target Zone 3 [12.09 - 11.53]. In the meanwhile, there could
start a correction in the trend. Aggressive traders might look for
purchases according to patterns.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.04.2020][1]

The short-term trend is down. The price broke out the support in Target
Zone 2 [17.69 - 17.13] and reached Gold Zone 2 [14.89 – 14.61].

Today, the trade session started with a short correction. Buyers are now
testing the resistance Additional Zone [16.12 – 15.93]. I suggest
looking for sell entries in this zone with a close target at the
yesterday’s low.

There is another resistance a little higher, Intermediary Zone [18.18 –
17.81]. The trend border lies in Intermediary Zone. If the price reaches
this zone, I will also recommend looking for sell entries in the zone.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.04.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [16.12 - 15.93]. TakeProfit: 14.10. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules. 

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [18.18 - 17.81]. TakeProfit: 14.10. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules. 

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

The XAUUSD market situation hasn’t changed in the medium-term chart
since yesterday.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.04.2020][4]

Gold is trading in the short-term downtrend. The price reached the
strong resistance Additional Zone [1696.6 – 1694.3] yesterday. Buyers
couldn’t break the zone out. Today, I suggest looking for a sell
pattern. The sell target will be the yesterday’s low and Target Zone
[1663.9 – 1655.6].

If the price continues growing and reaches Intermediary Zone [1721.7 –
1717.2], the trading idea to sell will still be relevant, as IZ is the
trend key resistance.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.04.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1696.6 - 1694.3]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1663.9 - 1655.6]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules. 

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1721.7 - 1717.2]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1663.9 - 1655.6]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules. 

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

EURUSD is still trading in the middle-term downtrend, the target is to
reach the April’s low and break out Target Zone 2 [1.0803 – 1.0786]. If
TZ2 us broken out, the next sell target will be TZ 3 [1.0631 — 1.0614].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.04.2020][7]

Euro sellers were trying to reach Intermediary Zone [1.0912 – 1.0903]
yesterday. They failed, and the yesterday’s low has been broken through
today. However, the resistance is in the same zone. There are still good
sell prices. I suggest expecting the test of this zone and looking for a
sell pattern. The target will be the lower Target Zone [1.0808 —
1.0790].

It will be relevant to buy the euro-dollar when the short-term trend
turns up via IZ breakout and consolidation above. In this case, the
target will be the upper Target Zone [1.1012 - 1.0994].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.04.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

Hold down middle-term sell trades entered in Target Zone [1.0957 -
1.0940]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [1.0803 - 1.0786], 1.0773. StopLoss:
at breakeven

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.04.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_210420_1.png?w=30&s=74b3001b7adc48704d87630517f15f17
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_210420_2.png?w=30&s=d86dc1301c6e643c6ba1242d3ea53e37
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_210420_1.png?w=30&s=a63b20df44c96597142047dc736e92c6
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_210420_2.png?w=30&s=8f6748913c3d85973261d64c2475cce5
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_210420_1.png?w=30&s=64dec2651f19c1f141d64e906f616b7e
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_210420_2.png?w=30&s=bd657404380355ff76f276c3711cceee
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-21042020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-21042020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_133.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=0a657a5fbe85ad03d65a691a67ee2e28