+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-21"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 21.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 21.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 21, 2020

April 21, 2020

Dollar got some [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) from oilDmitri Demidenko

## Oil is drawing the greenback and the US stocks apart

Everybody is talking about the V-shaped recovery. That is the trajectory
being followed by the US stock market, and the global economy together
with oil prices are expected to be moving this way. The oil market
situation has been extraordinary, and the WTI even dived below zero for
some time. Sellers must pay to buyers to take barrels off their hands!
Global stock indexes couldn’t stand with such a shock, the S&P 500
crashed down, being followed by the [EUR/USD][1].

If you have spare tankers, you can easily start up the best business in
the world! Contango in the oil market, when the WTI futures with
delivery in May 2021 cost more than $35 per barrel, and the current
prices are down to -$37 per barrel, has sharply increased the demand for
floating storage. At the end of March, there were about 109 million
barrels of oil stowed at sea. In the week through April 17, it was up
to141 million barrels. The global demand for oil dropped sharply amid
the pandemic, however, it should be rising along with the rebound of the
global economy.

Remarkably, such spreads between oil now and later, according to BTIG,
are a positive sign for the US stock market. It is now suffering from a
temporary turmoil, but stress won’t last in the long term. On the
contrary, a gradual rise in the WTI price will push up the shares of oil
companies. This will drive the S&P 500 up and weigh on the greenback.

Analysts suggest a gloomy outlook for the US dollar. According to
Goldman Sachs, the dollar can be appealing over the short-term
investment horizon, however, as the global economy recovers, it is going
to be actively sold. TD Securities notes that the sizes of the fiscal
and monetary stimulus packages are much greater in the USA than in other
countries, which should result in the growing budget deficit and a
weaker greenback. BCA Research, citing a downturn in the US public
finance, expects the [EUR/USD][1] growth to 1.15 in late 2020. And this
forecast is close to median forecasts.

 **EUR/USD forecasts**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 21.04.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

In fact, according to the IMF forecasts, the net public debt in advanced
economies will rise from 69.4% of national income last year to 85.3% in
2020, and 107% in the USA. Investors are growing more and more concerned
about the US huge unproductive debt, which will slow down the GDP
growth. The helicopter money provided by the Fed may not result in a
sharp rebound of the US GDP.

I should not that the US treasury yields had been higher than the
government bond yields in most advanced economies before the Fed
surprised the markets with the huge amounts of cheap liquidity. The drop
in the US Treasury yields should have pressed down the greenback, but
this didn’t happen amid the high demand for safe havens. The deferred
effect is likely to weaken the US dollar in the future. In the
meanwhile, the [EUR/USD][1] bears are going to target the support at
1.081. If the support is broken out downside, the euro-dollar is likely
to drop to the lower border of the consolidation range of 1.065-1.115.
The euro will be cheaper and traders could open long-term longs.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar got some [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) from oil][5]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/eurusd-forecast-21-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=2af88fbb27e90c3332546bd7eb968760
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-got-some-[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/)-from-oil&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-got-some-[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/)-from-oil&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-21-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=0b0d33d94ee02b3a547a263e6d5748fd