+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-21"
description = "USCrude forecast for 21.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "USCrude forecast for 21.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 21, 2020

April 21, 2020

Oil got into troubleDmitri Demidenko

## One can get into [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) or trouble. Oil is in trouble

These are extraordinary times we live in! If in the 20th century,
someone had said that the central banks’ interest rates and oil prices
could fall into the negative area, he or she would have been laughed at.
At the end of the second decade of the 21st century, financial markets
are used to negative borrowing costs, and now the [WTI][1] spot rate is
negative, - $37 per barrel! Of course, technical factors have played a
part, but the drop in the USCrude into the negative is natural form a
fundamental point of view either. There is so much oil, and nobody wants
it anymore.

Trade session on April 20 will get into [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/). The oil crash has never
been so sharp. The [WTI][1] price is below zero for the first time in
[history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/). Traders, who hold the oil futures at the time of their
expiration, have two ways out. They can either physically deliver the
asset or fulfill the contract obligations through a reverse transaction.
Having no storage to hoard oil, most holders of contracts for May have
selected the second way, which resulted in mass sales.

 **Daily changes in WTI rates**

![LiteForex: USCrude forecast for 21.04.2020][2]

 _Source: Financial Times._

Oil negative prices revealed the state of the modern oil market in the
era of the pandemic, the most important commodity in the world is losing
its value, as excess supply results in the filling of reservoirs,
pipelines, and tankers. There is less and less storage for oil, which
should result in the oil production cut. According to the US Energy
Information Administration. Crude stockpiles at Cushing have jumped 48%
to almost 55 million barrels since the end of February. The hub has a
working storage capacity of 76 million barrels, and it will be
completely full by May if the current production pace is kept.

Unlike[WTI][1], [Brent][3] is a seaborne crude allowing traders to
easily ship it to areas of higher demand. However, the fact that there
are fewer and fewer places to store it, increases the number of floating
tankers full of oil and presses oil prices down.

Obviously, the OPEC + agreement to cut global crude output by 9.7
barrels per day hasn’t satisfied the market. If the USA, Russia, and
Saudi Arabia can’t stabilize the oil market, the market will force to do
it. First of all, through a cut of the US crude oil production. In the
week through April 17, according to Baker Hughes data, the number of
active oil rigs in the US has dropped the most since 2015, the value has
decreased by more than a third over the past month. It must be followed
by curtailed US supply. Besides, following the price drop, Saudi Arabia
is willing to immediately fulfill the obligations under the OPEC +
agreement to cut global oil production. Saudi Arabian Oil Co. has said
it will cut output from 12.3 million barrels per day to 8.5 million
barrels a day. Donald Trump will consider reducing oil imports from
Saudi Arabia, as “We certainly have plenty of oil,” said the US
president.

 **Crude oil rigs and crude oil production in the USA**

![LiteForex: USCrude forecast for 21.04.2020][4]

 _Source: Trading Economics_

The super-contango existing in the oil market signals that, in the
medium-term and long-term outlook, both [Brent][3] and [WTI][1] will
tend toward a V-shaped recovery. On the one hand, along with the global
economic rebound, the demand for oil will also be rising. On the other
hand, crude oil production will be cut in the USA and other G20
countries. This gives a good chance to sell the [USD/CAD][5],
[USD/NOK][6], and [USD/RUB][7] on the rise. We only need to live through
a short-term shock.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][8]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][9] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

![Oil got into trouble][10]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USCrude&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/wti-price-21-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=8c0e998debd653539a674855537daa8f
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=UKBrent&returnUrl=true
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/backer-hughes-21-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=bf1c6f89b6859df30541093a146200a4
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCAD&returnUrl=true
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDNOK&returnUrl=true
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDRUB&returnUrl=true
   8. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=oil-got-into-trouble&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=oil-got-into-trouble&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-oil-21-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=10d069ee788dc9a8c07802404d3bcbec