+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-21"
description = "WTI oil price dropped below zero. How is that possible?"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "WTI oil price dropped below zero. How is that possible?"
type = "post"
+++

April 21, 2020

April 21, 2020

First time in [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/): oil price went negativeMikhail Hypov

##  **CRUIDE OIL FUTURES below zero**

###  **Analysis, fundamental preconditions, possible scenario**

We witnessed a historic event yesterday no one could imagine – the WTI
oil price dropped below zero. It means producers paid buyers to take oil
off their hands. Just imagine: you go shopping, you take your goods and
the seller pays you for that!

This situation seems unnatural in market economy conditions, doesn’t it?

![LiteForex: WTI oil price dropped below zero. How is that possible?][1]

However, the chart above proves that this situation is real. We see that
the May WTI oil futures price reached a record low of negative 49.32 USD
at New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX). The May futures expire on 21st
April, so the delivery price is fixed on the last trading day, 20th
April, and equals negative 37.63 USD.

Next, we see a rebound to a positive value of 1.38 USD. This rebound is
technical. Oil suppliers aren’t interested in shipping loads of money on
top. So, they made a technical buyback using collateral money. This
picture may look like unprecedented generosity: you make over 40 USD per
1 bought barrel out of nowhere. In fact, it’s not that simple.

Only institutional [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s may access NYMEX: big commodity brokers,
oil producing and processing companies or big plants.

In essence, a delivery futures contract becomes a regular buying/selling
contract upon expiration. This contract obliges sellers to deliver oil
while buyers are obliged to take delivery and transport oil. The
Exchange itself guarantees that the transaction will be executed. A
refusal to observe these obligations entails legal consequences and may
result in bankruptcy and enormous penalties.

Small traders and private [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s such as you and I don’t have access
to this mercantile exchange. That’s why CFDs (Contracts For Difference)
exist. They satisfy our demand. It’s the quotes of this contract that
Forex brokers provide. As the name suggests, it’s not the asset itself
that is traded but the difference in buyers’ and sellers’ prices. Such
contracts don’t have a period of limitation and they don’t oblige
sellers to deliver an asset or buyers to take delivery. That’s why we
weren’t able to buy oil at a price below zero.

Most likely, the price you can see looks like the following:

![LiteForex: WTI oil price dropped below zero. How is that possible?][2]

It may vary from one broker to another, but in general the picture is
the same. As the chart above shows, the lowest price of 1 CFD contract
in WTI was at around 16.71 USD.

###  **So why did the commodity market slump?**

The thing is, only 3% of deliverable futures are executed, even if we
are speaking of NYMEX. Brokers use these contracts for speculation,
earning from the difference in May and June futures prices. The
difference occurs because settlement takes place later.

If I were a big trader with huge oil storage facilities or with enough
money to rent such facilities, I could buy oil in instalments and resell
it next month when a deliverable futures contract was settled.

![LiteForex: WTI oil price dropped below zero. How is that possible?][3]

I placed the charts of the May and June WTI futures above. You see that
the June futures price is much different and is currently located at
21.41 USD. If I were sure that the price remained the same upon
settlement in June, I could resell oil at that higher price, pay my
supplier and profit from that difference in prices.

And here we have come to the essence. Market analysts said as early as
at the end of March that considering current demand for oil, the world’s
storage capacity would withstand the glut no more than a few months.
However, a report published on 15th April made it clear that demand had
dropped by another 19 million barrels a day. It means, the US oil
storage facilities will be overwhelmed in May.

Speculators realized all the risks the day before contracts expiration
and started selling contracts “at market”. Because many of them had been
using leverage, mass liquidation of positions and panics began.
Obviously, such a fierce collapse wasn’t caused by fundamental factors.
It was due to market panics.

This panic is based on a fear that resellers won’t find a buying
counterparty in June. Oil production can’t be cut so sharply in a second
for technical reasons, that’s why oil producers have to pay buyers. If
oil delivery is stopped, there will be no place to store it. Producers
will puzzle over its utilization or they will have to simply pour it
out, which will provoke an anthropogenic catastrophe.

This situation reminds of the times of Great depression, when farmers
would pour out unpurchased milk.  You can’t order a cow to stop
producing milk. Without regular milking, cows become less productive and
may even develop concurrent diseases. So, to avoid such consequences,
farmers had to pour milk out into the ditch.

![LiteForex: WTI oil price dropped below zero. How is that possible?][4]

The pictures above are a bright proof of that.

Still, oil isn’t milk and can’t be poured out. So, unlucky producers
have to pay buyers and get rid of their liquid gold as soon as possible.

However, this situation was quite predictable. Lower-quality oil brands
traded below zero as early as at the end of March. For example, Wyoming
Asphalt Sour. Similar cases were registered in 2014 and 2016. So, a
precedent of negative prices has already occurred. However, it’s the
first time in [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) when benchmarks dropped below zero.

###  **What will happen to WTI next?**

### ![LiteForex: WTI oil price dropped below zero. How is that
possible?][5]

It’s difficult to make relevant forecasts when market mechanisms aren’t
working properly. But the [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) chart of the WTI non-deliverable
futures contract shows that the oil price has never gone below 10.75
USD, even during the crisis of the early and late nineties. Being a
small trader, I think this level is a good buying reference point.

The situation with oil overproduction is temporary. No business can
operate at loss for a long time. So, the invisible market hand will fix
everything. Weak companies will go bankrupt and strong companies will
cut output and find a balance between demand and supply. Any crisis is
temporary too. Economy will recover sooner or later. Borders will reopen
and factories will start working. So, demand for oil will grow again.
The question is, how fast the recovery will be. Much depends on the
current global lockdown.  Another wave of the pandemic that many
analysts are forecasting may worsen the situation too.

The time will show the way it’s gonna be. I’ll continue sharing my ideas
here.

Subscribe and keep in touch!

 _I’d like to remind you that all materials are provided for educational
purposes only. They aren’t financial advice and don’t guarantee any
profits. All trading decisions you make are your responsibility only._

* * *

Take care of yourself and your money!

Subscribe and keep in touch!

Yours,

Michael @Hypov

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

![First time in [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/): oil price went negative][8]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.21/WTI_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=90cb994f1648b363242b08ef6ca97aee
   2. lh5.googleusercontent.com/LQpdR_QJ0DNL98WgHXGXl476e2LOT8nDoF1hj-6kiW02c_m1IAJm53StM5BG6YfQvkGbOUIVu2Tx71VR_d9mgiOfYH5cwXJp89jycfbISwmh6mTZ2bAaaFoHdrAF2nnbMj2bUMkN
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.21/WTI_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=c27d594609f4f4ef3ff62cbb47e5bc31
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.21/WTI_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=7eee7167d0f70de6be69172b09a530ae
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.21/WTI_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=8ab119041a93b54b863eed661c214e71
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=first-time-in-[history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/)-oil-price-went-negative&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=first-time-in-[history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/)-oil-price-went-negative&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.21/WTI_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=a9d4d911f6fab006a9c014caf654f1e0