+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-11-18"
description = "Euro price forecast 18 November 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 18 November 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=10.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-11-18

2021-11-18

When should you exit EURUSD trades? Forecast as of 18.11.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

The [EURUSD][1] downtrend looks so strong that nobody wants to buy,
considering it dangerous. However, no trend can go on without a
correction. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

That is how markets work; after a wave of sell-offs, one should take the
profit and exit sell trades. And it doesn’t matter what exactly
discourages the EURUSD bears, either the possible appointment of Lael
Brainard as the Fed’s Chair or almost a 100% chance that the Bank of
England will raise the interest rate. The euro growth above $1.133 could
result in an upward correction. The matter is how far the bulls will go.

It is not the economy and inflation that matters for the foreign
exchange market but how central banks view them. At the end of March, US
Treasury yields hit 1.75%, 15 basis points higher than now, although the
inflation outlook seemed less daunting than it is now. In contrast to
the outlook for GDP, which was expected to grow rapidly. However,
[EURUSD][1] traded 450 pips higher as the Fed insisted it was not
thinking about raising the federal funds rate and would not make
adjustments to the quantitative easing program. Today, they are actively
tapering the QE, and most FOMC members believe that they will have to
tighten monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) in 2022.

The derivatives market is convinced of two federal funds rate hikes in
2022 and weighs the chances of the third one. The indicators signal that
the Fed will raise the rates six times in 2022-2024. Morgan Stanley
estimates that this will happen 9-10 times in the current tightening
cycle. Citi is also confident about a faster monetary restriction
compared to the opinion of [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s.

### Dynamics of market expectations and FOMC rate forecasts



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

An active increase in rates by the central bank is the best argument in
favor of buying the currency it issues. In this case, it is the US
dollar. However, the greenback could weaken in the short term due to the
uncertainty about the new Fed Chair. Jerome Powell can be replaced by
Lael Brainard, who is considered an advocate of a looser monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)
relative to what is currently discounted. However, the change of the Fed
Chair is not a reason to stop selling the [EURUSD][1] on the corrections
up. Whoever takes over as head of the world’s most powerful central
bank, they will depend on the uncertainty around inflation and growth
prospects. The euro downtrend is strong and will continue, so bears
could go ahead.

In the short run, the prospect of Lael Brainard coming to power has
forced some [EURUSD][1] bears to take profits and exit shorts. Moreover,
the rise in the UK inflation to 4.2%, the highest level since 2011,
increased the chance of the BoE’s rate hike in December, strengthening
the pound. The growth in the sterling price supported the euro, as it
has been many times.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Therefore, the [EURUSD][1] bear trend remains strong. It will be
relevant to sell on the price rise over the next 6-9 months. However,
anything could happen in the short run. The pair could be corrected up
if the price breaks out the resistance at 1.133. If the bulls fail, it
will be relevant to sell the euro in the short term as well.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true