+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-11-18"
description = "Pound price forecast 18 November 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 18 November 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-11-18

2021-11-18

Pound: monetary tightening is soon to come. Forecast as of
18.11.2021Dmitri Demidenko

A strong UK labor market and inflation that has accelerated to
unprecedented levels since 2011 push the Bank of England to raise the
interest rate. How will monetary restriction affect the fate of
[GBPUSD][1]? Let us discuss the market outlook and make up a trading
plan.

## Weekly pound fundamental forecast

In Forex, traders always act at their own risk, and must understand that
in case of incorrect interpretation of the information received, they
will lose money. The head of the Bank of England, Andrew Bailey, did not
make excuses because he misled the financial markets about the need to
curb the raging inflation. The traders are to blame for believing in the
BoE head's assumptions. The interest rate remained unchanged at 0.1%,
but they lost money. It's only the beginning!

Ahead of the BoE meeting in November, it was not clear how the labor
market was doing. There was no data on October inflation either. The
Bank of England had to act blindly and it is not surprising that it
refrained from changing monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). At the beginning of the second
half of November, it became clear that it was necessary to raise the
interest rate. The number of paid employees in the UK in September-
October rose by 160 thousand to 29.3 million, and the number of
vacancies rose to a record level. It seems that the end of the
government's job support program in early autumn did not negatively
affect the labor market, which removes the obstacle to the start of
monetary restriction.

### Dynamics of UK inflation

 _Source: Bloomberg._

While the UK employment rates have started to improve, the inflation
situation looks dangerous. In October, consumer prices accelerated to
4.2% YoY, the highest level since 2011. The cost of about 30% of goods
and services included in the basket increased by 5% or more. This
indicates widespread price pressure and is pushing the Bank of England
to raise the interest rate. Derivatives markets consider the issue of
its growth by 15 bps in December to 0.25% resolved. The situation was
the same before the November MPC meeting, but now the central bank has
much more information than it did then.

### Dynamics of the number of UK employees on payroll

 _Source: Financial Times._

If the BoE starts monetary restriction, it will overtake the Fed and the
ECB and become the first major central bank to do so. Yes, Norway and
New Zealand regulators have already started tightening monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/),
but the Bank of England has an entirely different status.

The problem is that raising the interest rate will create a headwind for
the economy, which is struggling to recover and is still about 2% less
than before the pandemic. The situation is exacerbated by London's
intention to use Article 16 of the Brexit protocol. Prime Minister Boris
Johnson argues that it is legal to suspend part of the deal, and Brexit
Minister David Frost wonders if sanctions from Brussels could follow in
response. If the EU starts a trade war, the UK will respond immediately.

### Weekly [GBPUSD][1] trading plan

In my opinion, the increase in the interest rate in the UK will be
extremely slow, and the problems of its economy and the Brexit issue
will not allow the [GBPUSD][1] bulls to break the downtrend. The short-
term correction of the pair may continue. However, traders can use
rebounds from the resistances at 1.36 and 1.365 to enter sales.



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true