+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-27"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 27, 2020

April 27, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.04.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

Oil middle-term downtrend continues, as the key resistance hasn’t been
broken out. The key resistance zone is [11.67 – 10.92]. I don’t
recommend selling oil, although the trend is down. I think the
instrument to be oversold.

It makes sense to expect until the middle-term trend turns up. It will
occur after level 11.67 is broken out, and the price is consolidated
above.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.04.2020][1]

The short-term oil trend is up. The price is now trading in the range
between the resistance level 12.70 and the lower Additional Zone [10.62
– 10.41]. I recommend looking for buy entries according to a false
breakout pattern.

Below Additional Zone, there is Intermediary Zone [8.49 – 8.07]. This is
the border of the uptrend. If the price is corrected down to this zone,
it will be relevant to enter purchases, too. There must be a pattern,
before you enter any trades.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.04.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [10.62 - 10.41]. TakeProfit: 12.70. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [8.49 - 8.07]. TakeProfit: 12.70. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

It is clear form the middle-term chart that gold middle-term uptrend
continues, the upside target is Target Zone 5 [1757.2 – 1751.2]. After
TZ5 is reached, we shall see if the buyers break this resistance out. If
they do, the next upside is Target Zone 6 [1817.2 — 1811.2].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.04.2020][4]

The short-term gold trend is up. The upside target is Target Zone
[1760.0 - 1750.8].

The price is now trading in the local correction.

Additional Zone [1715.7 – 1713.4] was tested last Friday. The zone
wasn’t broken out, so, one may enter purchases according to the pattern
in the zone.

Below Additional Zone, there is Intermediary Zone [1692.8 – 1688.2],
which is the key resistance of the trend. If the price is corrected down
to this zone, we shall enter long trades.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.04.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

Open/hold up middle-term buy trades according to the pattern in Target
Zone [1663.9 - 1655.6]. TakeProfit: 1738.0, Target Zone 5 [1757.2 -
1751.2]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

Last week, the EUR/USD reached Target Zone 2 [1.0803 - 1.0786] in the
middle-term downtrend. Traders tried to break it out but failed. The
price has rebounded and is now being corrected up.

Without breaking the trend, the correction may continue up to Target
Zone [1.0927 – 1.0909]. Once the price reaches TZ, I suggest looking for
sell trades according to the pattern. The target is the low of last week
and Target Zone 3 [1.0631 — 1.0614].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.04.2020][7]

Let us switch to a short-term chart. The price is now breaking out the
key resistance of the short-term downtrend [1.0827 – 1.0818]. If it is
broken out, the trend will turn up, and the buy target will be Target
Zone [1.0927 - 1.0909].

If the price is back below the resistance, Intermediary Zone, today, we
shall continue looking a sell pattern and enter sell trades with the
target at Gold Zone [1.0717 — 1.0708].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.04.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

Enter medium-term sell trades according to the pattern in Target Zone
[1.0927 - 1.0909]. TakeProfit: 1.0730. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 27.04.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_270420_1.png?w=30&s=79d76f73e48a2827123a8b3e320fa066
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_270420_2.png?w=30&s=ee6939939f7cc26cd11854e2b4cedc00
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_270420_1.png?w=30&s=8cc5e9305e8d9519fcd01a56e04c9540
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_270420_2.png?w=30&s=e5435bb34e8c40443e9fd2bd789b3c37
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_270420_1.png?w=30&s=dfb02795e047fe52f45a883b22b1c2f5
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_270420_2.png?w=30&s=c440a3dbfd73f12ef23abd1ac6f72936
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-27042020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-27042020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_81.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=74d5a3a2a91390296d45d078fdb2af63