+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-27"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 27.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 27.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

April 27, 2020

April 27, 2020

Euro doesn’t lose the hopeDmitri Demidenko

## The EUR/USD bulls drew the pair above 1.08

The [EUR/USD][1] rally showed that hope is stronger than the experience
in the week ended April 24. The euro buyers expect a compromise in the
issue of spending the resources of the €1-trillion rescue fund and the
expanding of the list of assets to buy within the euro-area QE program.
The buyers of the US stocks expect the gradual reopening of the US
economy and the coronavirus vaccine. The rise of the US stock indexes
allowed the EUR/USD bulls to draw the pair back above the bottom of
figure 8.

According to the Bloomberg survey, the euro-area GDP will be at least 8%
down in 2020. If the pandemic wave floods Europe, the GDP drop will be
about 10%. The worst scenario suggests a lack of compromise in the issue
of the fiscal stimulus. In this case, the ECB will be the only actor and
will hardly avert the economic disaster.

 **Dynamics of euro-area economic performance**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 27.04.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

It is necessary to proceed quickly and decisively. 27% of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg expect the ECB to boost the size of its pandemic
purchase program as early as on April 30. The majority of economists
expect the ECB to officially announce buying “fallen angels”, the bonds
that have been downgraded to junk status. By the wave, the euro bulls
were supported, Italy’s credit grade was left unchanged by S&P Global
Ratings. The agency said Italy can afford more loans, as the ECB will
still buy out the bonds.

The meeting of the European central banks looks far more intriguing than
the FOMC meeting. The Fed is likely to announce its willingness to take
more measures in the case of necessity. The boosting of the ECB balance
sheet, in addition to the growing risks of the euro-area financial
fragmentation and its economic recession, means the euro will hardly
rise fast.

 **Dynamics of central banks’ balance sheets**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 27.04.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The victory of hope over the experience supports not only the
[EUR/USD][1] but the US stocks as well. Investors understand that the
rally of the US stock indexes won’t last for a long time unless the
tests of the anti-coronavirus drug tests are successful, and the US
economy rebounds quickly. Nonetheless, the S&P 500 has already been 27%
from the lows hit in March. Another bullish driver for the US stocks has
been the willingness of some local governments to reopen the economy and
Steven Mnuchis’ speech. The US Treasury Secretary says that, if the
companies open in the May-June period, the US GDP will “really bounce
back in July, August, and September”. According to the Congressional
budget office, the US economy will expand about 17% at an annual rate in
the second half of 2020.

The US dollar is yet supported by a drop in international trade. The
indicator was 2.6% down in February, following a drop of 1.5% M-o-M in
January. And the worst is yet to come!

 **Dynamics of the US dollar and international trade**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 27.04.2020][4]

 _Source: Nordea Markets_

The US stock indexes push the [EUR/USD][1] up, but the greenback still
has many benefits, and the euro still has many flaws. So, the major
currency pair tends towards consolidation in the range of 1.065-1.115.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Euro doesn’t lose the hope][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/euro-area-gdp-27-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=7e4679df46f8a07b00cbde0c05d4ebbf
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/balances-central-banks-27-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=eef9aa15784426f2d2f1d9073d60d96f
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/dollar-global-trade-27-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=b8ab0fdac0dd1063587ee7bbe6e1bdf8
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-doesnt-lose-the-hope&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-doesnt-lose-the-hope&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-27-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=e8e777d6612b2820ed35babc146dd634