+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-27"
description = "NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 13. Corrective Elliot wave patterns."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 13. Corrective Elliot wave patterns."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

April 24, 2020

April 27, 2020

NeoWave. Part 13. Corrections. Rules to identify a correction.Mikhail
Hypov

## NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Corrections. Rules to spot a flat and
zigzag. Variations of corrections and formal logic rules.

Dear friends!

I have covered impulse patterns and their variations in detail in the
previous article, I also explained their construction rules.

Today, I will continue covering the NeoWave theory developed by Glenn
Neely in his book Mastering Elliott Wave. If you are not familiar with
the NeoWave theory, read the previous articles on this topic:

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][1].

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels. ][2]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][3]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][5]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][6].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][10].

[NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][11]

[NeoWave. Part 12. Impulsions and the rules to analyze impulse wave
patterns][12]

In this article, I will deal with the corrections, their variations, and
construction rules.

###  **Corrections**

Remember that all the patterns that do not satisfy the requirements for
impulses (I covered them in the [previous article][12]) are corrections.
Now, I going to cover the details of the corrective patterns based on
the NeoWave theory.

### Flats (3-3-5)

This pattern is composed of three sub-waves, its structure is 3-3-5, the
sub-waves are marked with labels A, B, and С. Corrections should observe
the following requirements:

1\. Wave B should retrace by at least 61.8% of A.

2\. Wave C should be at least 38.2% of A.

First, you need to identify the correction variation. Draw two parallel
lines through the high and the low of the first wave (wave A).

  * If the B wave breaks through the horizontal line opposite its beginning, this is a string B-wave flat.
  * If wave B is between 81% and 100% of A, the B wave is normal.
  * If wave B is between 61.8% and 80% of A, B-wave is weak.

### Strong B-wave

The C-wave mostly depends on the relationship between A and B:

  * If the B-wave is between 101% and 123.6%, the C-wave is likely to exceed the beginning of the B-wave. Besides, if the C-wave is between 100% and 161.8%, the market is forming an irregular correction.
  * If wave B is more than 123.6% of A, there is a remote possibility that wave C will exceed the beginning of wave B. In this case, the pattern will also be an irregular correction.
  * If wave B is more than 138.2% of A, there is literary no chance that the C-wave will exceed the beginning of the B-wave.

As long as the C-wave is between the horizontal lines drawn across the
extreme points of the A-wave, there is likely to be an _irregular
failure flat_. If the C-wave breaks through the horizontal line, a
**running correction** __occurs in this case.

### Normal B-wave

The B wave is normal if it is within the range of 81%-100% of wave A
(inclusive). In this case, the C-wave is likely to exceed the beginning
of the B-wave.

  * If wave C is less than 100% of B, there is a c-failure flat.
  * If wave C is between 100% and 138.2%, the pattern is likely to be a regular flat.
  * If the C-wave is more than 138.2% of wave B, there should be forming an elongated flat.

### Weak B-wave

Wave B is weak if it is between 61.8% and 80% of wave A (inclusive):

  * If the C-wave fails to reach 100% of the B-wave, the pattern is a double failure flat.
  * If the C-wave is between 100% and 138.2% of B, there is a B failure.
  * If the C-wave is more than 138.2% of B, the pattern unfolding is an elongated flat.

### Formal logic rules ****

Unlike impulse patterns, the confirmation of a Correction does not _
****_require a sequential unfolding of specific retracement events. The
order of the confirmation stages depends on the relations between wave A
and wave B. The confirmation includes two stages. If both of them are
confirmed, there can’t be any doubts that the correction is interpreted
correctly. If only the first stage is confirmed, the current
interpretation may also be correct, but you should consider alternative
scenarios as well. The only requirement to confirm that a complex
correction has ended is to confirm the standard correction which
terminates the complex correction.

### Flats and Zigzags

The same rules apply to flats and zigzags. All possible variations are
grouped into two cases:

  * Wave B is shorter than wave A.
  * Wave B is longer than wave A.

### Wave B is shorter than wave A

First, draw a trendline across the beginning of wave A and the end of
wave B ("0-B" trendline).

The first stage confirms the authenticity of the correction, post-
corrective market action must _ ****_break the "0-B" trendline in the
same amount of time (or less) that wave C took to form. If it takes more
time, the C-wave is developing into a Terminal, or wave 4 (of C) is not
complete, or ****your corrective interpretation is incorrect.

The second stage 2 requires wave-c be completely retraced in the same
amount of time (or less) that wave-c took to form. If this requirement
is met, the second stage is confirmed.

### Wave B is longer than wave A

In this case, the correction is confirmed in the reversed order of
stages. Stage 1 confirmation is met if wave C is completely retraced in
the same amount of time (or less) that it took to form. Stage 2
confirmation is satisfied if the market breaks the 0-B trendline in the
same amount of time (or less) that wave C took to form.

Let us identify the type of the flat correction and confirm that the
interpretation is correct according to the formal (basic) rules of
logic.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 13. Corrective Elliot
wave patterns.][13]

First, we check if the pattern corresponds to the general criteria. It
is clear from the above chart that the potential wave B of a flat
retraces at least 61.8% of wave A (that is wave B is shorter than wave
A, which is considered when the pattern is being confirmed).

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 13. Corrective Elliot
wave patterns.][14]

It is clear from the above chart that the C-wave is more than 38.2% of
wave A. So, the second basic rule of a flat is also observed (3-3-5). We
also see that wave B is between 61.8% and 80% of wave A, so, the B-wave
is weak.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 13. Corrective Elliot
wave patterns.][15]

Now, let us try to identify the type of flat pattern. It is clear from
the chart that the C-wave is less than 100% of the B-wave, so, this
pattern is a double failure.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 13. Corrective Elliot
wave patterns.][16]

Now we shall confirm a particular pattern, double failure flat using the
basic rules of the logic described above. First, we draw a 0-B trendline
through the beginning of the A-wave and the end of the B-wave.

Let us check if the requirement stating that the post-correction move
breaks the 0-B trendline in the same amount of time (or less) (green
area) that wave C took to form(blue area in the chart). As this
condition is met, the first stage is confirmed.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 13. Corrective Elliot
wave patterns.][17]

At stage 2 we shall check if the next market move reaches the beginning
of the C-wave in a period of time that is no longer than it took to
form. As the green area that highlights the time it took to approach the
beginning of the C-wave (blue horizontal line in the chart) is less than
the blue area marking the time it took to form the C-wave, and so, the
second stage is also confirmed. So, this pattern is certainly a
correction, namely, a double failure, as we identified earlier.

### Zigzags (5-3-5)

Zigzags and their complex combinations are the only corrective patterns
which can temporarily “resemble” Impulsive patterns. To avoid
misinterpretation, very specific limits must be placed on zigzag
behavior. Below are the minimum requirements which allow a pattern to be
categorized as a zigzag:

  * The A-wave should not retrace more than 61.8% of the previous impulse wave of one larger degree (if present).
  * The B-wave should retrace at least 1% of wave A.
  * Wave-C should move, even if only slightly, beyond the end of wave A.

If the wave group has followed these three minimum parameters, it is
time to check to adherence to the maximum limits imposed on the B-wave
of a zigzag:

  * No part of wave B should retrace more than 61.8% of wave A.

  * If a part of wave B retraces more than 61.8% of wave A, that part will not be the end of wave B. It is likely to be the first segment of a more complex correction for wave B. The end of wave B will complete at 61.8% of wave A or less.

The deciding factor for categorizing a zigzag formation is the length of
the C-wave:

  * If the C-wave is less than 61.8% of wave A, this is a truncated zigzag.

  * If the C-wave is between 61.8% and 161.8% of wave A (inclusive), this is a normal zigzag.

  * If the C-wave is more than 161.8% of wave A this an elongated zigzag (be careful with this pattern, it could be part of an impulse wave).

### Truncated zigzag

This is quite a rare zigzag variation. To be justified, this formation
must meet the following criteria:

  * Wave C cannot be shorter than 38.2% of wave A but should be less than 61.8% of wave A.

  * After completion of the zigzag, the market must retrace at least 81% of the entire zigzag, and preferably, it should retrace 100% or more. This will confirm the counter-trend strength indicated by the extremely short C- wave.

  * A truncated zigzag will most likely be found as one of the five sub-waves of a Triangle, or ****as a segment of one of the sub-waves of a Triangle

### Normal zigzag

In a normal zigzag, the C-wave can be from 61.8% to 161.8% of wave A. To
identify this pattern, it should satisfy the below conditions:

### Elongated zigzag

An elongated zigzag is characterized by an oversized C-wave, that is why
it temporarily resemble impulsive activity. An elongated zigzag is the
best imitator of impulsive behavior. This makes them very difficult to
recognize while they are unfolding. Usually, they can be only confirmed
after they have completed.

When the third wave in a sequence is more than 161.8% of the first wave,
the pattern is likely to be the first three waves in a five-wave
impulse, rather than an elongated zigzag. The retracement following the
third wave helps to decide between the two different patterns. After an
elongated zigzag, the price should reverse and retrace more than 61.8%
of the C-wave before the end of the C-wave is exceeded. If these
conditions are met, the pattern is likely to be an elongated zigzag, if
the conditions are not met, there is likely to be forming an impulse
pattern.

Besides, take into account that an elongated zigzag appears only in the
early stage of a contracting triangle that is a part of a more complex
polywave or a pattern of a larger degree. It can also appear at a final
stage of an expanding triangle, which is a part of a more complex
polywave or a pattern of a larger degree. I will cover polywaves in
detail after describing all variations of wave patterns.

### Formal logic rules

Remember that basic rules of logic covered above (in the section devoted
to flats) also apply to zigzags. I will use those rules as an additional
confirmation of the pattern’s authenticity.

Let identify the type of zigzag on the example and confirm the
interpretation using formal (basic) rules of logic.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 13. Corrective Elliot
wave patterns.][18]

We shall successively check the minimum and maximum limits required to
identify a zigzag. The blue lines in the chart mark the impulse wave of
a higher degree preceding the zigzag. The beginning and ending points of
the waves within the zigzag are marked with red circles. First, we
compare the impulse and wave A. The A-wave doesn't retrace more than
61.8% of the previous impulse, namely, it is about 38.2%, so, the first
minimum requirement is met.

It is visually clear that the B-wave retrace more than 1% of wave A, and
wave C exceeds the termination of the A-wave. So, the rest two minimum
requirements are met.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 13. Corrective Elliot
wave patterns.][19]

Next, we verify the maximum limits of wave B. It is clear from the
chart, that the B-wave is less than 38.2% of wave A, and so, none of its
parts can exceed 61.8% of wave A. So, can be sure that this requirement
is met without a detailed analysis of the wave B structure.

The next step is to measure the length of the C-wave, which is a
deciding factor for categorizing a zigzag formation. Wave C is at least
61.8% of wave A, and so, this is a normal zigzag, according to the
conditions described above.

That is all for today. In the next educational article, I will cover the
most complicated patterns in the Elliott Wave theory, triangles. I will
describe the variations of triangle corrections, and the requirements
they must meet.

* * *

Take care of yourself and your money!

Subscribe and be the first to read the most up-to-date materials!

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][20]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][21] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![NeoWave. Part 13. Corrections. Rules to identify a correction.][22]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b/
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a/
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-10-retracement-rule-6-conditions-b-c-and-d/
   11. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-11-retracement-rule-7/
   12. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-12-impulsions-and-the-rules-to-analyze-impulse-wave-patterns/
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.22/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=3c02b0494e62238c5dac9e29e91de773
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.22/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=8d42ef2a2b87b769e06c18dc21ec17c4
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.22/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=14b2aa9039ffb7e136f8c92832abaf71
   16. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.22/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=451cba4d4386086d237abe2b5fbc1023
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.22/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=1ed945260ea8f7ecb0c7274dc64f5494
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.22/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=b9bdb4a215ca068495f83d27c28698cd
   19. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.22/BTCUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=39d7af074d9cd7429c88c632b82bb043
   20. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-13-corrections-rules-to-identify-a-correction&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   21. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-13-corrections-rules-to-identify-a-correction&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   22. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.04.22/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1008abb5ce566f15097d27bc6271e60a