+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-27"
description = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=10.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

April 27, 2020

April 27, 2020

Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysisRoman Onegin

## Forecast for BTCUSD, LTCUSD, ETHUSD, EOSUSD, XRPUSD pairs

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[BTCUSD][1]**

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][2]

It is clear form the BTCUSD [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) timeframe that the market is forming
the global corrective wave 4 that is composed of the sub-waves
[W]-[X]-[Y]. Sub-waves [W] and [X] have completed. Wave [Y] is now
unfolding as a double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y). Let us see the structure of
wave [Y] in more detail on the 8-hour chart.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][3]

The eight-hour chart shows that wave (W) has completed as a bearish
triple zigzag. The bullish linking wave (X) has completed as a double
zigzag W-X-Y. There is currently forming wave (Y) that may complete as a
simple zigzag. Wave B, being a triple zigzag, will complete at a level
around 8133. After that, the price should be declining in the C-wave
towards a level of the previous low, made by the A-wave, that is level
3800.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[ETHUSD][4]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][5]**

There is developing the triple zigzag B that is composed of the sub-
waves [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. After the second linking wave [X] completed,
there has started developing the sub-wave [Z] as a plain zigzag
(A)-(B)-(C). Let us study the structure of this zigzag on the H8
timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][6]

There is currently forming the bear impulse wave C, consisting of the
sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5, within the zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). The market has been
following correction 4, which is a triple zigzag, for a long time. This
correction is likely to finish soon. The price might continue rising to
a level of 202.00. After that, the market may turn down and start
declining in wave 5 towards the previous low, made by impulse 3.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[LTCUSD][7]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][8]**

The LTCUSD market situation is similar to the previous one, that is,
there is forming the corrective wave B as a down triple zigzag. There is
currently forming the final motive wave [Z] that is composed of the sub-
waves (A)-(B)-(C). Wave (A) is a down impulse, the [B] correction is a
double zigzag, wave C is an impulse that is yet unfolding. Let us see
the chart structure in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][9]

After the double zigzag (B) completed, there has been developing the
final impulse (C) that is composed of five sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. There is
likely to be forming the final wave [z] of the corrective wave 4, which
is developing as a triple zigzag. The price can be rising to a level of
48.00 in the next few days, next, after the correction 4 completes, the
market may continue moving down to a level of the previous low at 24.17
made by wave 3.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[EOSUSD][10]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][11]**

The EOSUSD continues following the bear corrective wave B that should
complete as a plain zigzag [A]-[B]-[C]. Wave [A] is a simple down
impulse that is composed of the sub-waves (1)-(2)-(3)-(4)-(5). Wave [B]
is also complete, it is an upward double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y). The final
element of the impulse wave [C] is now developing. Let see the chart
structure in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][12]

The final leg of the wave [C], wave (5), is developing as a five-wave
impulse. Wave (5) is composed of the sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. The long-term
corrective wave 4 is likely to complete soon as a triple zigzag. The
price could be rising to a level of 2.90. After this formation finishes,
the price should be smoothly declining in wave 5 to a level of the
previous low made by impulse 3, that is to a level around 1.38.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[XRPUSD][13]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][14]**

Like other major cryptocurrencies, the XRPUSD market is also following
the long-term downtrend, that is the corrective wave B. Wave B is
developing as a triple zigzag, with the first four segments completed
inside, and there is now developing the final wave [Z]. Wave [Z] is a
plain zigzag, where wave (A) is a leading diagonal, wave (B) is an
expanding triangle, wave (C) is an impulse that hasn’t yet completed.
Let us see the structure of this impulse in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][15]

Within the impulse (C), there is forming a long-term corrective wave 4
that is likely to be a triple zigzag, according the structure unfolding.
This correction is likely to complete soon. After the correction 4
finishes, the market should start moving down in impulse 5. The price
could be declining to a level of the previous low, made by impulse 3,
that is to a level of 0.109.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][16]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][17] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysis][18]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-04-2020X/BTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=96b50399f5128bb4889cee1151f1de5f
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-04-2020X/BTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=8b70d7600620e882ed3dc93861495286
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-04-2020X/ETHUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=37b97f8d07821d80d2906efe03dd7370
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-04-2020X/ETHUSDH8.png?w=30&s=d427b5663344951d1a7033caa719b010
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-04-2020X/LTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=01882d32042d53b11b02665a96367462
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-04-2020X/LTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=d026641a86b187a5c18d3fabba354d44
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-04-2020X/EOSUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=be917399d4d5f9db533f5ae928d6be84
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-04-2020X/EOSUSDH8.png?w=30&s=856f891c9431f2a79578c5b2dbe46f43
   13. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-04-2020X/XRPUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=1476ce33ba5a40bdabe9cef24f4de229
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/27-04-2020X/XRPUSDH8.png?w=30&s=e34fe77accf0fc1b23b68b8968382d72
   16. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-04-27&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   17. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-04-27&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/1-elliott-waves-weekly-forecast-for-[BTC](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/who-is-the-creator-of-bitcoin/)usd-ethusd-ltcusd-eosusd-xrpusd_1000x545.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1480cfce2406c81b57be8a77076342f1