+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-14"
description = "US dollar price forecast 14 July 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 14 July 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-07-14

2021-07-14

EURUSD: burn or freeze? Forecast of 14.07.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Powell’s idea about the temporary surge in consumer prices doesn’t seem
to be working. The CPI rate has been excessively high over three
consecutive months. How will it affect markets? Let us discuss the Forex
outlook and make up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Quarterly US dollar fundamental forecast

Jerome Powell managed to convince the markets of the temporary nature of
the US inflation. However, the inflation rate has been excessively high
for three consecutive months, and [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s doubt that the Fed Chair is
right. The Fed is not a one-man show, and a dispute between the US
central bankers is a bullish factor for the dollar, just like the split
in the ECB is a bullish factor for the euro. The [EURUSD][2] featured
the worst crash over a month, reaching the [target at 1.177][3].

In June, the US consumer price index rose 5.4% Y-o-Y, featuring the best
growth over the past thirteen years; the core inflation surged to 4.5%,
the best growth since November 1991. Massive stimulus leads to an
increase in savings, and the opening of the economy encourages Americans
to spend these savings. Strong domestic demand will persist for a long
time, which, against the backdrop of a shortage of goods due to supply
disruptions, pushes prices up. At the same time, the shortage of
employees forces employers to raise salaries, which also contributes to
the acceleration of inflation.

### Dynamics of US inflation



 _Source_ _: Financial Times_

The longer the period of abnormally high prices persists, the more
chances that the inflation will be of a long-term nature. The growth of
consumer inflation expectations for a year to 4.8% and for 3 years to
3.6%, according to research by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
convinces of this.

A rise in the cost of used cars alone cannot explain the rise in CPI to
5.4%. Rent is starting to come into play, the share of which in the
structure of consumer prices reaches 40%. Given its lagging nature
behind home sales prices, one can only guess what awaits us in the
autumn. Will inflation rise to 6%-7%? How long can the Fed put up with
such numbers?

### Dynamics of rent and home sales prices in USA

 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

Some FOMC members have already become impatient. The housing market
bubble worries St. Louis Fed President James Bullard, who claims that
the reduction in Treasury and mortgage bond purchases can start once the
Federal Open Market Committee is ready. The Fed's purchases of mortgage
bonds for $40 billion a month contribute to the fall in the cost of
mortgage loans and the rise in the housing market prices.

Jerome Powell has been concerned about low inflation for too long. That
is why he suggested that after the pandemic ended, prices would return
to where they were. Under 2%. However, the CPI growth looks too fast
now. The Fed Chair and his fellow doves can well change their minds
about the temporary nature of the inflation surge and begin to control
it.

### Quarterly [EURUSD][2] trading plan

If Jerome Powell expresses some doubts that the excessively high prices
are temporary during his Congressional testimony, the euro bears will be
encouraged to go ahead. I am willing to hold shorts entered at [level
1.1915][4] and add up to the sell trades. The target at 1.177 has been
reached, but the price can well continue falling. As I [wrote
earlier][5], the [EURUSD][2] is more likely to fall to 1.14 than to rise
to 1.22.







## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-rules-the-market-forecast-as-of-29062021/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-nothing-lasts-longer-than-the-temporary-forecast-as-of-28062021/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/dollar-is-waking-up-forecast-08072021/