+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-21"
description = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week December 21-25 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week December 21-25 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-21

2020-12-21

Medium-term forecast for five cryptocurrencies as of 21.12.2020Roman
Onegin

I welcome my readers!

I have prepared a medium-term cryptocurrency forecast based on Elliott
wave analysis of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS, and Ripple. I offer
trading signals for each cryptocurrency pair.

Ethereum, Litecoin and Ripple are shaping the last legs in global
zigzags. During the coming trading week, prices will probably rise
across all cryptocurrencies.

The article covers the following subjects:

##  **Elliott wave Bitcoin analysis**

 ****

The current BTCUSD structure shows a global bullish impulse 1-2-3-4-5
forming. It seems that a long-term correction 4 has been completed, it
consists of sub-waves [W]-[X]-[Y]. Then the cryptocurrency pair rose in
impulse wave 5. Most likely, wave 5 has built four parts out of five.
Let's consider it in more detail on the H8 time frame.

After the end of a small correction [4] of 5, the price began to move
upwards rapidly. At the moment, impulse [5] has completed 4 parts out of
5. In the near future, the bullish impulse [3] of a smaller degree will
be completed, then, after a slight decline in the correction [4], the
price will rise in the final wave [5] towards the level of 29500.00.
Consider opening longs.

### Trading plan for [BTCUSD][1] for the week:

Buy 23855.00, TP 29500.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ethereum analysis**

 ****

The ETHUSD structure hints at a bullish simple zigzag A-B-C. Wave A is
an upward five-wave impulse, wave B is a bearish correction in the form
of a triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. Wave C is also an impulse that
is still being built. The last leg of impulse C is developing in the
chart at the moment. Let's look at the last section of the chart in more
detail on the H8 timeframe.

As part of the upward impulse wave [5], small sub-waves (1) and (2) have
been formed. Now the final wave 5 of the bullish impulse (3) is
developing. Most likely, the price will rise slightly above the high
formed by linking wave [X] to the level of 880.00. Then the price is
expected to fall slightly within the corrective wave (4). After the
completion of this correction, there'll probably be an increase in
impulse (5) towards the level of 1400.00 formed by the bullish wave A.

### Trading plan **[ETHUSD][2] **for the week:

Buy 640.04, TP 880.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Litecoin analysis**

 ****

The LTCUSD cryptocurrency pair is forming a large upward zigzag A-B-C.
There was a bullish impulse wave A, after which the price went down
within the corrective wave B. Correction B is a triple zigzag and it
seems to be fully completed. A new bullish wave in the form of impulse
is currently developing. Let's look at the last section of the chart on
a smaller timeframe.

An upward impulse wave [1] with a corrective wave (4) in the form of a
contracting triangle has been completed. The bearish correction [2] has
also been completed. Now the price is rising in an upward five-wave
impulse [3]. Most likely, the market will reach the level of 137.00, and
after that it will reverse and start moving in the opposite direction,
forming a bearish correction [4]. Consider opening longs.

### Trading plan for **[LTCUSD][3]**  for the week:

Buy 115.70, TP 137.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave EOS analysis**

 ****

The structure of EOSUSD shows the development of a global triple zigzag,
which consists of sub-waves [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. At the moment, the
market is in the second linking wave [X], which is a bullish triple
zigzag (w)-(x)-(y)-(xx)-(z), where the first four parts have already
been completed, and the last wave (z) is still developing. Let's
consider this wave in detail on the H8 time frame.

The final wave (Z) takes the form of a standard zigzag. The price was
rising in bullish impulse A, then going down in bearish correction B in
the form of a double zigzag. Now we see the initial part of the impulse
wave C forming, and it may lead the market to the level of 4.11, thereby
renewing the previous high formed by the wave (Y). Consider opening
longs.

### Trading plan for **[EOSUSD][4]**  for the week

Buy 3.16, TP 4.11

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ripple analysis**

 ****

The current structure of XRPUSD hints at a bullish A-B-C zigzag
developing. Impulse wave A and bearish correction B have been built, the
latter took the form of a double zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]. At the moment, the
market is in the initial part of an upward impulse wave. Let's look at
its structure in more detail on the H8 timeframe.

Sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3] have been fully completed within the bullish
impulse. Now a horizontal corrective wave [4] is developing, and this
wave, most likely, will take the shape of a contracting triangle
(a)-(b)-(c)-(d)-(e). Recently, the first part of this triangle, sub-wave
(a), has been completed. It took the form of a bearish double zigzag. In
the short term, a zigzag wave (b) will be developing. It will possibly
be completed in the area of 0.743. A  possible future movement is shown
in the chart.

### Trading plan for **[XRPUSD][5]** for the week:

Buy 0.557, TP 0.743

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-21122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-21122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus