+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-21"
description = "Forecast for the franc's price for 21 December 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for the franc's price for 21 December 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-21

2020-12-21

Franc is accused of manipulations. Forecast as of 21.12.2020Dmitri
Demidenko

Washington threatens Bern with import taxes but the proud small European
country won’t kneel. The SNB continues to stick to its guns. How will
the conflict with the States affect the [USDCHF][1] and the [EURCHF][2]?
Let's discuss and make a trading plan.

## Fundamental forecast for franc for one year

And after us the deluge! Living out the final days of his presidency,
Donald Trump is making every effort to put a spoke in his successor's
wheel. The U.S. Treasury Department refused to support emergency loan
programs. The White House insists that Chinese companies should be
delisted from U.S. stock exchanges and forbids [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s to put money in
some of the Chinese stocks. Finally, Steven Mnuchin labels Switzerland
and Vietnam currency manipulators, and his team threatens to impose
measures, from limits on buying volumes to import tariffs. However, the
small European country isn't going to kneel.

The U.S. Treasury says Switzerland's and Vietnam's currency
interventions were partly aimed at correcting payment balance, which is
one of the criteria for giving them the "currency manipulator" label.
The other two criteria include the volume of U.S. foreign trade positive
balance and the current trade/GDP ratio. In 2019, the USA applied that
label to China and then removed it after Beijing and Washington made a
Phase 1 trade deal.

Bern isn't afraid and doesn't plan to give up verbal and currency
interventions, saying that those measures and negative rates are the
best monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) for the extremely small Swiss bond market and the
only way to improve financial conditions and fight deflation. The SNB
forecasts that consumer prices will be fluctuating near zero in the next
two years.

### Inflation in Switzerland

###

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The USA is formally right: based on the three criteria, Switzerland can
be labeled a currency manipulator. However, they could make allowances
for the SNB as it has to work under challenging conditions. The global
economy's recession and Brexit provoke uncertainty, which increases
demand for safe-haven assets. It's not surprising that the SNB's
interventions into Forex reached the highest annual levels since 2012 in
the first half of 2020 alone.

### SNB's currency interventions

###

 _Source: Bloomberg._

### Trading plan for [EURCHF][2] and [USDCHF][1] for one year

The situation will change radically in 2020, and Joe Biden will most
likely have to remove Switzerland's currency manipulator label. A
victory over COVID-19, fast recovery of the global economy, and a
successful resolution to Brexit will drop demand for safe-haven assets
and negatively affect the franc. Bloomberg's consensus forecast for the
[EURCHF][2] for the end of the next year is 1.11. I agree with them,
expecting that the pair will rise even higher, up to 1.13, in 2021. My
advice is to buy the pair.

As for the [USDCHF][1], I don't think that the [S&P 500][3] rally, which
is the main factor in the pair's moves at the moment, will be as fast in
2021 as in March-December. So, the dollar's downside potential will be
most likely limited by the level of 0.85 francs.







## Price chart of USDCHF in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCHF&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURCHF&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true