+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-16"
description = "Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental factors."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental factors."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=18.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 16, 2020

July 16, 2020

Fundamental and technical analysis of ASX200Mikhail Hypov

## Fundamental and technical analysis of ASX200

Today we’re examining Australia’s stock index ASX200. It embraces 200
biggest companies of Australia whose total capitalization exceeds 80% of
the stock market. The specifics of this local market are closely related
to the specifics of the Australian economy. Today we’re going to
forecast  ASX200’s cost, provide its technical and fundamental analyses
and examine its wave structure. We will also compare the index with
other global stock indexes and determine its key levels and actual
scenarios.

By the way, the official name of Australia is the Commonwealth of
Australia, but the unofficial name popular with the Australians
themselves is Land of Oz or just “Oz”. Also, there are many other
nicknames such as:

> New Holland

>

> Straya

>

> the Land Down Under

>

> the Great Southern Land

>

> the Lucky Country

>

> the Sunburnt Country

>

> Ulimaroa

These numerous nicknames can be explained by the fact that Australia
lies far away from the Western world. The big distance and hard access
to its territory made Australia even more attractive and mysterious, and
spread lots of legends and rumours about that faraway Land of Oz.
However, Australia’s location turned out to be beneficial in the current
pandemic circumstances.

![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental
factors.][1]

Epidemiologists would unanimously predict another pandemic wave
worldwide, and it seems to have already started in Australia if you look
at the chart above. But at a closer look, the ratio of Number of deaths
to Number of new Covid cases is less than the one registered during the
first wave. It is a good factor which means that the government and the
population have managed to set up some efficient ways of combatting the
disease. The latest statistics on coronavirus are rather encouraging: a
large scale lockdown may not be necessary and the Australian economy may
avoid another stress test.  However, besides important domestic factors,
there are some external ones that may affect the behaviours of indexes.
The Australian economy’s peculiarities have already been discussed in
one of my previous [articles][2]. I will only remind you that the
economy of Australia is based on resources. This fact is clearly
reflected in the composition of the [ASX200][3] index. Almost 20% of the
companies are directly connected with production of raw materials and
they account for 20% of capitalisation as of 1 June 2020 according to
[asx200list.com][4]. Another important factor which influences the state
of the index is macroeconomic stats from Far East and South Asia.  In
the first place, I mean China and Hong Kong that import 40% of
Australia’s production.

Fundamental surprises aren’t expected either. Since China remains the
only country that will keep its GDP growth in the positive zone
according to IMF, the general forecast is positive. But the Chinese
government itself holds off making an economic forecast for the second
half of 2020, which means China fears the consequences of the second
coronavirus wave.

After all, Chinese macroeconomic figures may be doubtful considering the
alleged cover-up of the epidemiological situation on the eve of the
global pandemic.  Those rumours are still being discussed by the US
government and Donald Trump personally. Political engineers say that
confrontation with China will be at the top of the agenda in the
upcoming electoral cycle. The US presidential election scheduled for 3
November 2020, we are expecting 3 tense months where Trump may worsen
the US-China relations with a couple of tweets. Obviously, the
Australian market is sensitive to that confrontation and every new round
may hit hard the sentiment of the Australian stock market.

###  **Global technical analysis of ASX200 index**

Now that we’ve examined the fundamental factors let’s have a look at the
technical component. I don’t know why but the index ticker is XJO. If
you’re a LiteForex trader, you will easily find the index as
[ASX200][3]. As usual, we will check the global [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) of the index
movement first.

![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental
factors.][5]

It’s displayed in the 12-month chart above. At the macro-level, we see a
stable bullish trend - the orange trade range - that even the current
crisis failed to break. It’s a good factor for a future long-term
growth. However, the current slump broke a local bullish trend which
started in 2009. The same situation concerns any other stock index, but
it’s a bad sign from the point of view of technical
analysis.![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental
factors.][6]

The ultimate candlestick’s long shadow gives rise to a movement in the
area of 4,600-4,700. So technically, nothing can prevent an attempt to
return to the previous minimums at this macro-level.

###  **Analysis of ASX 200 G35**

![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental
factors.][7]

If we [express][8] the ASX200 index in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of the 1971 Gold standard,
the situation looks sad: we can observe a regular fall instead of a
growing trend. It indicates the fatal depreciation of the stock against
gold.  The ultimate candlestick in the 6-month chart above points to the
continuing downtrend of  [ASX200 ][3] relative to the gold standard.
Thus, the index shouldn’t be expected to grow on the “long” money of
institutional [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s in the nearest time. This situation rather
indicates a speculative nature of the index price’s recovery and
confirms the fear of a probable future correction. To analyse those
fears thoroughly, we will compare the evolution of the [ASX200][3] index
with S&P500 and Shanghai Composite. We will also draw global and local
wave structures, determine the key levels and make a global, medium-term
and short-term scenario for [XJO][3]’s future movements.

Subscribe, save the link to this article and come back for an update
next Tuesday!

 _I’d like to remind you that all materials are provided for educational
purposes only. They aren’t financial advice and don’t guarantee any
profits. All trading decisions you make are your responsibility only._

* * *

Good luck and profits, everyone!

Yours,

Michael @Hypov

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][9]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][10] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of ASX200 in real time mode

![Fundamental and technical analysis of ASX200][11]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/COVID-19_AU_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=bbb9be044e9622b529c233333565906f
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/audusd-fundamental-and-technical-analysis-short--and-long-term-forecasts/
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ASX200&returnUrl=true
   4. www.asx200list.com/
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=a70077e33358eb28e6f737e189ab51e7
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=73124dc19883bf347c30ebbd027575b2
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_G35_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=d5b43a5bd1f05ed5d7633f457960d943
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/g35-asset-valuation-method-through-the-example-of-sp500/
   9. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=fundamental-and-technical-analysis-of-asx200&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   10. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=fundamental-and-technical-analysis-of-asx200&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=8b3b32338dcea3e2cc2c1f7cdc6564f0