+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-16"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 16, 2020

July 16, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.07.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil is trading in the medium-term uptrend. The price is now trading
under the strong resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. If it is
broken out, the next growth target will be Target Zone 6 [49.17 –
48.42].

Otherwise, the price will be corrected down to the trend key support
[33.64 — 32.86].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.07.2020][1]

The short-term trend is up. The price broke out the intraday resistance
Additional Zone [40.37 – 40.20] yesterday. The trading ideal to sell oil
on the correction didn’t work out.

We shall now expect until the high of June is broken through and see if
the price will consolidate above 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. If it does, the next
upside target will be Gold Zone 5 [45.04 – 44.67].

If June’s high is broken through, but the price doesn’t consolidate
above, it will be a false break out. One may consider sell trades
according to this pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.07.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today: **

If June’s high is broken through and the price rolls down under the
resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92], sell. TakeProfit: 36.92.
StopLoss: above the high of the false breakout pattern.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

We shall expect the gold price to break through the high of last week
and then take the decision to buy or sell. The decision to buy or sell
will depend on whether buyers consolidate the price above Target Zone 6.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.07.2020][4]

Expect until the gold price, trading in the short-term uptrend, breaks
through the high of July 8. After that we shall see if the US session
closes the price above Gold Zone [1812.5 – 1808.0].

Purchases entered in Additional Zone should be moved to the breakeven.

The key support to the uptrend is in the zone of [1771.1 — 1773.0].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.07.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

Hold up buy trades entered in Additional Zone [1797.6 - 1795.6].
TakeProfit: 1818.3. StopLoss: at the breakeven.

* * *

##  **Euro to dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

EURUSD broke through the high of June. The major target for buy trades
entered at the support level 1.12 has been reached.

Buyers failed to consolidate the price above the previous high, so, it
is too early to expect the price to rise to Target Zone 2 [1.1550 –
1.1532].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.07.2020][7]

The EUR/USD short-term trend is up. The price, following the trend,
broke out Target Zone [1.1385 – 1.1367]. Buyers almost tested Gold Zone
[1.1467 – 1.1458].

The EUR/USD is being corrected down now, the correction target is to
test the trend key support [1.1360 - 1.1351]. I recommend entering new
purchases in this support zone according to the pattern. The target will
be yesterday’s high + Gold Zone.

The correction may not reach the target if bulls go ahead and draw the
price to the support Additional Zone [1.1406 – 1.1401]. If so, we shall
look for a pattern to enter buy trades in this zone with the targets
mentioned above.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.07.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1406 - 1.1401]. TakeProfit: 1.1421. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1360 - 1.1351]. TakeProfit: 1.1421. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 16.07.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_160720_1.png?w=30&s=11ba36486d15f05d2940f1617e74cc43
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_160720_2.png?w=30&s=d4e9a61e3fa9940186c4536c14e138b5
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_160720_1.png?w=30&s=c31bf9744370e261fbc90faf20f14df1
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_160720_2.png?w=30&s=2ee9b3136e06ae3d67ddf57f98e882b2
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_160720_1.png?w=30&s=50c460e4e4b70107db6edc09eb7af044
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_160720_2.png?w=30&s=3f8cbc20213ae6bbe7940049c4c64726
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-16072020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-16072020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_95.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=684a344196af9e3433d5cf98c5e841a4