+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-16"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 16.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 16.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 16, 2020

July 16, 2020

EUR/USD forecast: Euro asks the ECB not to go too farDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental Euro forecast for today

### If European QE ends too early, the euro-area bond market and the
EUR/USD bulls will be challenged

When the market is stabilizing, and the interest rates of the G10
central banks are close to zero, the world follows fundamental laws. The
idea of trading changes in the global risk appetite is giving way to
such a Forex driver as the divergence in economic growth. Strong
domestic data strengthen the local currency and vice versa. Just like in
an economics textbook. So, it is not surprising that the US dollar
featured a stronger reaction to the impressive growth of US industrial
production than the  [S&P 500][1].

According to the Deutsche Bank, the drop in the US macroeconomic
indicators amid the growth in the number of COVID-19 confirmed cases
will be the major reason for the greenback’s weakness in the short-term
outlook. The USD trade-weighted index is about to test the bull
trendline started in 2011. Goldman Sachs says the improvement of
domestic data in the euro-area and China in addition to the long-term
dollar weakness will encourage the dollar bears to go ahead.

### Dynamics of the USD Trade Weighted Index

 ![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 16.07.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The [EUR/USD][3] rise won’t be so easy. Everything can change at any
moment. According to Bloomberg, if the euro-area workers roll off
retention schemes into unemployment, the unemployment rate could jump by
6% on average. higher unemployment could prompt consumption to drop by
as much as 4% in the four biggest euro-area economies, dragging GDP down
by 1.3% through this channel. Although Germany and France are going to
support the €750-billion recovery plan, the project hasn’t been yet
adopted. The weakness of the euro-area domestic demand threatens
European exports, which is very dangerous for the export-led euro-area
economy.

These factors make the ECB extremely careful with the issue of the end
of the emergency asset purchase program. According to Bloomberg's
leading indicators, the economic recovery of Germany, France, Spain,
Italy is going on faster than in the USA. However, the euro area may any
time follow the way of Japan, where the recovery trend has slowed down.

### Dynamics of the recover of the world’s leading economies

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 16.07.2020][4]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Christine Lagarde is likely to sound moderately dovish, stressing the
current risks and leaving the door open for further QE expansion. It
should calm down the markets and narrow the euro-area bond-yield
spreads, which should support the euro.

The [EUR/USD][3] bulls are supported by the hopes for the approval of
the French-German plan at the EU summit, the growth of the US stock
indexes amid the [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) about the successful tests of the COVID-19
vaccine, and the expansion of China’s GDP by 3.2% in the second quarter.
The indicator exceeded the forecasts, it must be in the positive area at
the end of 2020. However, China’s retail sales data are disappointing.
It raises concerns about the recovery of the advanced economies, where
the proportion of the consumption in the GDP is much greater than in
China.

Despite the [EUR/USD][3] correction down from three-month highs, the
euro middle-term and long-term outlook remain bullish. The pair can well
reach the target at 1.16 this year, so, it makes sense to buy on the
corrections down.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![EUR/USD forecast: Euro asks the ECB not to go too far][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/dollar-twi-16-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=aa55a7040a8cc238f7a5b7c53e122157
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/recovery-16-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=6dd78caa10bf8a6bb8e3f66ae401f335
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-euro-asks-the-ecb-not-to-go-too-far&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-euro-asks-the-ecb-not-to-go-too-far&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-16-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=c4eb985d9a8dd643b080614f420e1378