+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-22"
description = "Pound price forecast 22 April 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 22 April 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-22

2021-04-22

Pound reaches endgame. Forecast as of 22.04.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The fight against the pandemic in the UK is not over, but the end is
close. This fact allows consumers, manufacturers and service providers
to be optimistic about the future, and [GBPUSD][1] price to show growth.
Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan

## Monthly pound fundamental forecast

As Israel is expected to defeat COVID-19 soon, the UK is quickly
catching up. While a record number of COVID-19 cases in the world per
week was recently recorded (5.2 million people), the number of
infections in the UK has been steadily declining, with death rate
falling to the lowest level since September. All due to the fact that at
least one dose was given to 65% of the UK’s population. The improvement
in the epidemiological situation allows the British economy to recover,
and the pound to strengthen confidently.

### COVID-19 cases dynamics

 _Source: Financial Times._

In March, UK consumer prices accelerated from 0.4% to 0.7%, while core
inflation – from 0.9% to 1.1%. According to the latest BoE forecasts,
the CPI will reach 1.9% by the end of the year, however, there is a
growing belief in the market that the index will exceed the target of
2%. However, the ING believes that the surge of inflation will not be as
impressive as in the US due to less domestic demand and a weak labor
market. The latter pleasantly surprised Bloomberg experts with a lower
unemployment rate in December-February than they expected.

In the near future, the pound may be supported by the release of
statistics on UK PMI and employment data, which, most likely, will show
the growth of optimism among consumers, manufacturers and service
providers. The UK is entering the final stages of the fight against
COVID-19, and the country has much to rejoice about. The number of
COVID-19 cases among people over the age of 80 has decreased by 80%
since the beginning of the pandemic, so judging by this indicator the UK
situation looks better compared to Europe and the US.

### COVID-19 cases dynamics among different age groups

 _Source: Financial Times._

### COVID-19 cases dynamics in Europe and US

 _Source: Nordea Markets._

A study by the Financial Times in five countries with different
epidemiological situations shows that COVID-19 can be defeated only with
the help of vaccines. Three months ago, India announced that its
population had acquired herd immunity. The country is currently
recording a record number of deaths. In this regard, the UK is one of
the leaders in the fight against the pandemic, so the success of its
currency looks natural. Hedge funds recovered pound net longs in the
week ending April 13 after falling to their February low five days ago.

At the trading session on April 19, [GBPUSD][1] price showed the most
rapid growth since March last year on expectations that a busy economic
[calendar](https://www.fintechee.com/web-trader/) will show how the country is recovering from the most serious
recession in 300 years.

### [GBPUSD][1] trading plan for a month

The improvement of the epidemiological situation, the opening of the
economy, its rapid growth and adaptation to post-Brexit conditions allow
sterling to be optimistic about the future. Just as the yuan benefited
from China's successful fight against the pandemic in 2020, it is time
for the pound to take the lead in 2021 thanks to accelerated
vaccinations. [Breakout of resistance at 1.382][2] allowed entering
[GBPUSD][1] long trades. Continue to add up to long positions on the
corrections. Levels 1.417 and 1.44 remain targets



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/pound-is-rising-again-forecast-as-of-15042021/