+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-11"
description = "US dollar price forecast 11 November 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 11 November 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-11

2020-11-11

Dollar smiles again. Forecast as of 11.11.2020Dmitri Demidenko

While the EURUSD bulls wonder why the price isn’t rising, the bears see
the reasons for a deeper correction. What’s next? Let us discuss the
Forex outlook and make up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

##  **Monthly US dollar fundamental forecast**

It is impossible to predict market trends. The market is unpredictable;
it can always surprise us. The [EURUSD][1] bulls are surprised because
the pair doesn’t grow. There should be several reasons for the euro
growth. Joe Biden has won the US presidential election; there is
positive [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) about the COVID-19 vaccines. Investors should have started
selling the dollar. However, the greenback remains strong, encouraging
traders to buy the USD.

Jefferies notes that the USD closed in the red zone six months out of
the last seven, having been down by 11%. The dollar’s surge on November
9 proves that most of the negative had been priced in the quotes, and
the greenback will hardly start falling now. The central bank in Europe
and Asia, which compete with the Fed, are willing to provide an extra
monetary stimulus, which is a bearish factor for their local currencies.
Jefferies sees the [EURUSD][1] falling to 1.14 as the dollar smile
theory is popular again. It suggests the USD should strengthen at the
final, third stage of the economic cycle because the US GDP outperforms
the global peers.

Even though the next two quarters, according to the President of the
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas Robert Kaplan, will be tough for the US,
it should demonstrate robust growth in 2021. Unlike Europe, the USA does
not impose a lockdown, and the restrictions introduced in the euro-area
countries are costly. For example, each month of helping businesses and
workers in Italy affected by COVID-19 will cost Rome €10 billion. If the
restrictions last through March, it will cost €40 billion - €50 billion,
or 3% of GDP. Furthermore, the PMIs and other indicators are falling,
which is confirmed by a decrease in the ZEW Indicator of Economic
Sentiment for Germany to the lowest level since April.

###  **Dynamics of German economic sentiment index**





 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The epidemiological situation in the euro area deteriorates. The ECB
estimates that one in seven workers in Spain is associated with a
business at risk of collapse, which compares with 8% of employees in
Germany and France, and 10% - in Italy. The divergence in economic
growth is in favor of the USA, which presses down the [EURUSD][1].

And what about Biden’s victory and coronavirus vaccines? I believe the
first driver has already worked out, which is evident from the euro drop
on November 9. There is still much uncertainty around vaccines. Nobody
can say how quickly they will be introduced and how long the immunity
will last. The market needs time. The US stock indexes could be
overvalued and will be unstable in the next few weeks. Besides, the
positive [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) about COVID-19 vaccines will give Republicans a reason to
delay or adopt a smaller fiscal stimulus than previously anticipated.

###  ** **Monthly** **[EURUSD][1] trading plan****

The euro should be strong in the long-term outlook, but it should weaken
in the short term. Under such conditions, one could buy the [EURUSD][1]
at the breakout of the resistance at 1.192. It will be relevant to sell
the euro-dollar if the price breaks out the support at 1.179.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][2]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][3] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-smiles-again-forecast-as-of-11112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   3. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-smiles-again-forecast-as-of-11112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus