+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-08"
description = "Forecast for euro price for 8 June 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for euro price for 8 June 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-08

2021-06-08

Leave the euro alone! Forecast as of 08.06.2021Dmitri Demidenko

We know that central banks don't want their national currencies to
consolidate. It used to be like that in the era of low prices. These
days, inflation is growing, and global demand supports exporters more
than currency rates. How will those changes affect the [EURUSD][1]?
Let’s check it and make a trading plan.

## Weekly fundamental forecast for euro

Who will continue following the Fed, and who no longer wants to be a
part of the pack? That's the main secret of 2021. Before trade wars and
the pandemic, divergence in monetary policies was the main factor in
Forex pricing. So, the Canadian dollar, the Norwegian krone, and the
British pound lead the G10 race as their issuing banks are scaling back
QE and taking about rate hikes in 2022. Which way will the ECB choose?
Its meeting is one of the key events in the week ending 11 June.

If not for Ottawa, London, Oslo, and Wellington's dissent, I would say
that Frankfurt would remain in Washington's shade. Even if the
eurozone's inflation finally reached a target of 2% after many years,
its growth pace falls far behind the US one. US consumer prices may rise
to 4.7%. At the same time, the OECD predicts that the eurozone's GDP and
the US GDP will increase 4.3% and 6.9% in 2021. Christine Lagarde thus
has every reason for talking about the temporary nature of the inflation
boost and a need to uphold favorable financial conditions and the QE
program.

### US' and eurozone's inflation trends



 _Source: Bloomberg._

The problem is that the ECB and most other central banks don't have a
dual mandate as the Fed does. They only target inflation, while the Fed
can refer its inaction to a weak labor market. Questionable weakness,
I'd say. According to Atlanta Fed’s research, employment rates have to
grow by 375 thousand each month for unemployment to reach the pre-
pandemic level of 3.5% in one year. In May, the market was disappointed
with 559 thousand, though.

Most likely, the ECB isn't willing to follow the example of Canada,
Great Britain, Norway, and New Zealand as a hawkish mood may give a free
hand to [EURUSD][1] bulls. I've got one curious thought here. It is
believed that a national currency's consolidation causes trouble for
exporters and bars inflation from growing. However, local suppliers sell
products easily amid high global demand, whereas CPI needs to be
controlled. So, why not strengthen the euro as Ottawa, London, or Oslo
did with their national currencies?

I think the ECB's meeting in June will be interesting. Everyone expects
that GDP, unemployment, and, probably, inflation forecasts will be
upgraded, and Christine Lagarde will fight [EURUSD][1] bulls using
dovish rhetoric. What if she doesn't? The euro will consolidate.

 **Weekly trading plan for**[ **EURUSD**][1] ****

My base scenario is that[EURUSD][1] bulls won't break above 1.221-1.222,
which will indicate their weakness. The pair will fall in the following
days amid rumors about a US inflation boost and the ECB's dovish mood.
Then the euro will grow on facts. Inversely, the pair's consolidation at
the current level will require a different strategy.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true