+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-08"
description = "Gold price forecast 8 June 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Gold price forecast 8 June 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-08

2021-06-08

Gold won't repeat old mistakes. Forecast as of 08.06.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

Each recession is unique. If the Fed stopped monetary stimulus after the
previous one, now the regulator is not in a hurry to do the same.
Moreover, Joe Biden has repeatedly announced the expansion of fiscal
stimulus. What does this mean for gold? Let us discuss the Forex outlook
and make up a gold trading plan

## Fundamental gold forecast for six months

Inflation has similarities to corporate profits. Both indicators are
growing within the existing trend. However, as soon as some
unprecedented event happened last year, consumer prices and business
financial results sharply rise in the current year. This is called the
base effect, which suggests that the rise is temporary. Is it any
surprise that US inflation rises to 4.7% when earnings per share of [S&P
500][1] companies jumped by 225% in the first quarter?

Base effects will continue to accelerate CPI and PCE in the summer but
will slow down in the autumn. They will accelerate again in early 2022,
which is associated with the reopening of the US economy in 2021. It
seems that the topic of high inflation will not leave the front pages of
[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/)papers for a long time, which positively affects the gold positions.
The rise of the gold price to $1,900 per ounce is a result of the fact
that [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are no longer afraid of a repeat of the previous
recession. Then the Fed, worried that massive monetary and fiscal
stimulus would accelerate the CPI and PCE, began to taper QE and raise
federal funds rates. As a result, the gold price plummeted. Today, the
[XAUUSD][2] uptrend is very strong.

The hawks believe that if the stimuli were induced by the recession,
then they should end at the same time. However, the leading central
banks continue the QE program, arguing that their economies have not yet
recovered. Moreover, even labor market problems and soaring inflation
did not make Joe Biden abandon the idea of ​​expanding fiscal stimulus
by $4 trillion. His team presented a $6 trillion budget, a third of
which has no funding sources. It is not hard to guess that they will be
covered by the resources raised from the bond issue. Since the beginning
of the pandemic, 56% of new debt obligations has been bought by the Fed.
The US regulator will continue to do so, and the growth of its balance,
on the one hand, will put pressure on Treasury yields, and on the other,
on the US dollar.

### Dynamics of the Fed and the ECB balance sheets



 _Source: Bloomberg._

The ECB is following the same path, but the European economy is weaker
than the US one. As a result, the popularity of fiat currencies is
falling, and the demand for gold, as an alternative, is growing. Bitcoin
has tried to compete with gold, but the recent BTC sell-off has proven
that using cryptocurrencies to hedge against inflation risks is
extremely reckless.

### Gold trading plan for six months

Thus, the topic of high inflation will remain relevant for at least
another six-nine months. A repeat of the 2013 taper tantrum will be
avoided as the Fed continues to absorb colossal volumes of the debt
market, which will keep pressure on Treasury yields and the US dollar.
In such conditions, gold feels very comfortable. Yes, corrections due to
Joe Biden's additional fiscal stimulus, as was the case in early 2021,
are possible, but overall market conditions remain bullish. This allows
me to predict the gold price growth to $1960 and $2000 per ounce in
three and six months, respectively. I recommend buying gold on
corrections.



## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.lite.forex/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true