+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-09-14"
description = "US dollar price forecast 14 September 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 14 September 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-09-14

2021-09-14

Dollar will count to two. Forecast as of 14.09.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The EURUSD bears could only drive the price to a two-week low. Is their
weakness temporary? What’s next? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and
make up a trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

The [EURUSD][1] is about to start consolidation, and the downtrend can
only be restored in two cases. If the Fed decides to surprise the
markets and announces in September that it will start tapering the QE
already in November. Or if the US stock indexes go into a deep
correction for another reason. For example, due to the inability of
Democrats to implement a new fiscal stimulus package.

Remarkably, the two main bearish [EURUSD][1] drivers are based on the
same factor. Inflation. Judging by the forecasts of Bloomberg experts,
in August, consumer prices will slow down from 5.4% to 5.3% but will
continue to be at excessively high levels. If they persist until the end
of the year, the Fed will finally have to admit that nothing is more
permanent than temporary. Furthermore, according to research by the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, an increase in annual inflation
expectations, from 4.9% to 5.2% in August, only adds fuel to the fire.

It should be noted that the rise in inflation is a global trend. The CPI
is also rising in other advanced economies, but not as quickly as in the
United States. Most likely, the reason is the large-scale monetary and
fiscal stimuli. Yes, there are supply problems that allow producers to
raise prices, but in the USA, this process is faster, which can be
attributed to strong domestic demand. Which, in turn, is tied to the
support of the economy from the Fed and the White House.

### Dynamics of inflation in advanced economies



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

If inflation remains at elevated levels, maintaining current and adding
new stimulus could harm the economy. The Fed will be forced to quickly
phase out the QE and raise interest rates, and Joe Biden's $ 3.5
trillion project risks not getting through Congress. Yes, it is
considered less inflationary than the previously adopted $1.9 trillion
package, but it will drive prices up in any case. It should be noted
that one of the drivers of the [S&P 500][2] rally was the expectations
of legislators' approval of the new stimulus plan, and if this does not
happen, the stock index will be corrected down. It is good [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) for
safe-haven assets, including the US dollar.

The euro is supported by factors that are likely to be temporary. Faster
GDP growth in the euro area compared to the United States in the second
and third quarters risks slowing down in the fourth one. Bloomberg
experts predict that inflation in the currency block will peak at 3.2%
in October-December, and fall below the 2% target by mid-2022. A member
of the ECB executive board, Isabel Schnabel _,_ believes the excessively
high inflation is unlikely to last for a long time.

### Forecasts for euro-area inflation

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

### Weekly[ EURUSD][3] trading plan

Thus, until the September FOMC meeting, the [EURUSD][1] pair will be in
the medium-term consolidation, and in the absence of surprises from the
Fed, it will continue consolidation. In such a situation, the price
growth above 1.182 will result in the correction towards 1.1850-1.186.
If the price falls below 1.18, it will continue declining towards 1.1755
and 1.1715. Nonetheless, the downtrend will hardly resume now.







## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/ru/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true&language_save=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true