+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-18"
description = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week January 18"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week January 18"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-18

2021-01-18

Medium-term forecast for five cryptocurrencies as of 18.01.2021Roman
Onegin

I welcome my readers!

I have prepared a medium-term cryptocurrency forecast based on Elliott
wave analysis of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS, and Ripple. I offer
trading signals for each cryptocurrency pair.

The Bitcoin market is forming a bullish impulse. The EOS has started
forming the final leg of the triple zigzag. The Ethereum, Litecoin, and
Ripple are forming the final impulse waves of the simple zigzags.

The article covers the following subjects:

##  **Elliott wave Bitcoin analysis**

Bitcoin continues forming the global upward impulse wave. It is composed
of five sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. When the corrective wave 4, composed of the
sub-waves [W]-[X]-[Y], the market has started rising in the bullish
impulse wave 5. Wave 5, like the main trend, is an impulse. Let us
explore the most recent chart section in more detail in the eight-hour
timeframe.



Four out five sub-waves have completed with wave 5. There is currently
forming the final wave (5) of [5]. The upward impulse wave 3 has
recently completed, and there is now forming the flat corrective wave 4
as a contracting triangle. The sub-waves [c]-[d]-[e] of this triangle
should be forming soon. Next, the price will continue rising in wave 5
up to a level above the previous high of 42000.00, made by wave 3,
towards a level of 50000.00.

### Trading plan for [BTCUSD][1] for the week:

Buy 35331.00, TP 42000.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ethereum analysis**

The ETHUSD market is forming a bullish zigzag composed of three large
sub-waves A-B-C. The chart displays the final section of impulse wave A,
and the structure of the corrective wave B that is a bearish triple
zigzag. The second impulse wave C has not yet completed. There is now
forming the final leg of the C wave, impulse [5]. Let us study its
structure in the H8 hour timeframe.

Sub-waves (1)-(2)-(3)-(4) have completed within impulse [5]. The price
is rising in the final impulse wave (5). Wave (5) has also completed
four elements out of five. Therefore, the price should be rising in sub-
wave 5 to a level of 1450.00, where the entire bullish trend should end.
So, the market should be running up in wave 5 in the near future.

### Trading plan **[ETHUSD][2] **for the week:

Buy 1198.59, TP 1450.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Litecoin analysis**

The LTCUSD market is forming a bullish standard zigzag A-B-C. In March
2020, the market completed forming the corrective wave B as a triple
zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. Next, the price started rising in the upward
impulse wave. Impulse [3] has recently finished, and there is forming
the corrective wave [4]. Let us explore this chart section in more
detail in a shorter timeframe.

After the bullish impulse [3] completed, the price crashed. The market
formed wave (A), and the corrective wave (B) has completed by half. The
market should continue rising to a level of 157.00, where wave (B) will
be 61.8% of the (A) impulse. Next, the cryptocurrency pair will be
declining in the impulse wave (C) to a level of 115.00. Level 115.5 is a
little lower than the previous low. An approximate trajectory of the
future price movement is outlined in the chart.

### Trading plan for **[LTCUSD][3]**  for the week:

Buy 140.27, TP 157.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave EOS analysis**

The EOSUSD market continues forming the bearish triple zigzag, composed
of the sub-waves [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. From February till December 2020,
the upward linking wave [X] was forming. The [X] wave is a triple zigzag
(w)-(x)-(y)-(x)-(z). There is developing the initial element of the
final wave [Z], which could end as a simple zigzag (a)-(b)-(c), like
other motive waves [W] and [Y]. Let us explore the [Z] wave in more
detail in the H8 time frame.

The first impulse wave (A) has completed within the down wave [Z]. Next,
the market has started rising. There is now forming the bullish
corrective wave (B). The (B) wave should end at a level of 3.13, where
it will 50% of the (A) wave according to Fibonacci retracements. After
the suggested level is reached, the EOS price should start declining in
the (C) wave to a level of 1.50, as it is outlined in the chart.

### Trading plan for **[EOSUSD][4]**  for the week:

Buy 2.71, TP 3.13

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ripple analysis**

The XRPUSD market, like the ETHUSD and LTCUSD, is forming a large upward
zigzag A-B-C. The first two legs of the zigzag, the sub-waves A and B,
have completed. Wave A is an impulse; wave B is a bearish triple zigzag.
There is now developing the first element of the impulse wave C. Let us
see the most recent chart section in an eight-hour timeframe.

After the triple zigzag B completed, the market ha started running up.
There is now forming the first leg of the bullish impulse, wave (1).
Wave (1) is unfolding as a five-wave impulse 1-2-3-4-5. The sideways
corrective wave 4 must have finished as a contracting triangle.
Therefore, the price should be rising in wave 5 to a level of 0.368,
marked by wave 3. Next, the market should be running down in correction
(2), as it is outlined in the chart.

### Trading plan for **[XRPUSD][5]** for the week:

Buy 0.273, TP 0.368

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-18012021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-18012021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus