+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-18"
description = "Japanese Yen price forecast 18 January 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Japanese Yen price forecast 18 January 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-18

2021-01-18

Japanese yen: from favorites to outsiders. Forecast as of
18.01.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Over the past three years, the yen has consistently been on the list of
favorites among the G10 currencies. Trade wars and the pandemic allowed
it to close the year with a gain, but this may change in 2021. Let us
discuss the Forex outlook and make up [USDJPY][1] and [EURJPY][2]
trading plan

## Fundamental Japanese Yen forecast for six months

The Japanese yen has a great start in 2021, but it risks ending it not
very well. It would seem that the growth in demand for safe-haven assets
looks like an anomaly against the backdrop of the [S&P 500][3] rally.
However, the Japanese currency rate against most major world currencies
is growing steadily, following the US dollar, inspired by the rise in
Treasury yields. [EURJPY][2] prices plummeted to 1.5-month lows due to
extended lockdown in European countries, slow spread of vaccines in
Europe, and risks of the ECB's dovish stance at the January 21 meeting.
Is the pair going to break out the uptrend?

Capital flows are at the heart of Forex rate formation. At the same
time, huge bags of cheap money from BoJ determine the status of the yen
as a funding currency and make it possible to say with confidence that
much depends on Japanese [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s' preferences. When in the second half
of 2020 they relied on an increase in the attractiveness of European
assets compared to American ones, not only [EURJPY][2], but also
[EURUSD][4] prices were growing. In early 2021, the rise in Treasury
yields revived the carry trades with the yen's participation as the
funding currency and the US dollar as the risky asset. As a result, the
main currency pair went into a correction, and the [USDJPY][1] prices
stabilized.

Alas, but the potential for a 10 and 30-year US Treasury bond rate rally
looks limited to the areas of 1.25-1.3% and 1.92-2%. All due to the
spread of COVID-19, the slow introduction of vaccines, and temporary
difficulties with the passage of the $1.9 trillion fiscal stimulus
project through Congress due to Donald Trump's impeachment. The Fed is
unlikely to start talking about curtailing QE earlier than May-June,
which will soon pressure the US dollar and other safe-haven currencies.

### Dynamics of US debt market rates



 _Source: Bloomberg._

Indeed, prolonged lockdowns, slow vaccination process, and heightened
risks of a double recession in the eurozone are seriously undermining
the euro. However, these reasons are unlikely to give the ECB an excuse
to expand the emergency asset purchase program's scope. According to
most Bloomberg experts, this program will be used in full.

### Predictions on the scale of the European emergency asset purchase
program

 _Source: Bloomberg._

### [USDJPY][1] and [EURJPY][2] trading plan for six-twelve months

When global GDP starts booming, which is expected in the second quarter
of the year, safe-haven currencies will lose their appeal. If the US
dollar has such an advantage as QE's potential collapse at the turn of
2021-2022, the yen does not have such an opportunity. Therefore, I
expect the [USDJPY][1] prices' grow by the end of this year to the
107-108 level.

As for [EURJPY][2], the current correction provides an opportunity to
buy the pair at a lower price. The recovery of the eurozone economy
after the lockdown may inspire the ECB hawks to feats. Talks of
tightening monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) will sooner or later reach [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s, which,
along with improved global risk appetite and favorable for export-
oriented currencies' increased international trade, will help raise
[EURJPY][2] prices to 129-130 level during the first half of 2021.



## Price chart of USDJPY in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDJPY&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURJPY&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true