+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-18"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (18 January 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (18 January 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-18

2021-01-18

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 18.01.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Gold price continues to trade in the accumulation zone [1859 - 1816].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil is trying to consolidate below the local low of last week at 52.27
in the medium-term chart. If the bears succeed, then a pattern to work
in correction with the target at the trend key support  [49.39 - 48.94]
will be formed.

The short-term oil trend is up. Today traders are trying to correct the
price down to the trend key support [51.66 - 51.43].

Last week, Additional Zone [52.79 - 52.68] was broken out. This week, we
can expect the correction to continue. In this regard, sell oil in the
resistance [53.04 - 52.93] according to the pattern with the target at
the day's low + Intermediary Zone.

It will be relevant to buy oil after the IZ test or after the price
consolidates above the Additional Zone [53.04 - 52.93].

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [53.04 - 52.93]. TakeProfit: 51.84, Intermediary Zone [51.66 - 51.43]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [51.66 - 51.43]. TakeProfit: 53.88. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold price continues to trade in the accumulation zone [1859 - 1816].
Today, at the market open, we saw a false breakout of last week's low.

For a buy signal to appear, the resistance of 1859 should be broken out.
To form a sell signal, the price should be fixed below the level of
1816.

The short-term is down. The Gold Zone has been reached today [1809 -
1804]. This was followed by traders' reaction and the closing of large
sales. Now the price is trading in the correction with the target at the
Intermediary Zone [1857 - 1852].

After the IZ test, observe the traders' reaction, and if a sell pattern
appears, sell the precious metal with a target at the week's low.

Otherwise, if the price closes above the IZ at the US session, the
short-term trend will reverse up. Enter gold purchases with a target to
the upper Target Zone [1912 - 1902].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Open medium-term buy positions according to the pattern [1859.2 -
1816.9]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [2005.8 - 1994.3]. StopLoss:
according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Last week, traders tested the key support of the euro medium-term
uptrend [1.2165 - 1.2146]. They also closed the gap that was formed
between December 11 and 14.

According to the chart, the price consolidated below the Target Zone at
the US session. One more similar consolidation is required to reverse
down the medium-term trend.

EURUSD price successfully reached Gold Zone [1.2073 - 1.2064]. The
short-term is down. For a further fall, traders need to break out the GZ
and consolidate below. In this case, the target will be Target Zone 2
[1.1981 - 1.1962].

If the correction starts to develop from the current prices, enter sales
at the strong resistance. Additional Zone [1.2108 - 1.2104] and
Intermediary Zone [1.2152 - 1.2144] are among the strong resistances at
the moment. Focus on the low of the day as a sales target.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.2108 - 1.2104]. TakeProfit: 1.2065. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.2152 - 1.2144]. TakeProfit: 1.2065. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-18012021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-18012021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus