+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-04"
description = "Pound price forecast 4 February 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Pound price forecast 4 February 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-04

2021-02-04

Pound believes in itself. Forecast as of 04.02.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The rise in US Treasury yields and the potential dovish stance of the
BoE contributed to [GBPUSD][1] and [EURGBP][2] pullbacks but did not
radically change the balance of power in pairs. Let us discuss the Forex
outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly pound fundamental forecast

The pound easily achieved the target set [in the previous article][3]
and marked the best 4-month winning streak against the US dollar since
2012. The bets on the speed of vaccine spread in various countries are
working, and even the pullback of [GBPUSD][1] and [EURGBP][2],
associated with expectations of the BoE's dovish stance, does not scare
pound buyers.

### Pound's winning streak against the US dollar

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Despite the rather gloomy picture of British business activity, the fact
that more than 14% of the population were inoculated, compared with 7.9%
in the US and 2.3% in the European Union, is encouraging for the pound
bulls. They are sincerely looking forward to the UK economy's early
opening, deferred demand, and massive fiscal stimulus from the
government. Bloomberg experts' consensus forecast for the [GBPUSD][1]
pair was raised from 1.36 to 1.4 at the end of this year, and several
banks and investment companies consider it too conservative. Jupiter
Asset Management calls the figure 1.45, while Nomura expects the pair to
soar to 1.42 by the end of March.

The rapid vaccination and the fact that the sterling is no longer under
the influence of a chaotical Brexit explain the British currency's
stability against the strengthening US dollar. As a result, the pound's
undervaluation will gradually decrease. [GBPUSD][1]'s correction, in my
opinion, is because speculators are exiting longs ahead of the Bank of
England's meeting. Correction is also associated with the upcoming
second week of February US Treasury bonds' auctions, which leads to an
increase in yields.

Even though only 1 out of 14 Bloomberg experts expects a reduction in
the bank rate, and the [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) market signals that there should not be
any big shocks from BoE in February, we cannot exclude unpleasant
surprises for the pound buyers. Andrew Bailey and his colleagues may
reject the introduction of negative rates. Still, they are unlikely to
rule out this option, which could increase the cost of borrowing and
restrain economic growth.

### BoE interest rate change expectations



 _Source: Bloomberg._

### Weekly [GBPUSD][1] and [EURGBP][2] trading plan

In January, the market has already experienced the high yield of
Treasury bonds and the further strengthening of the US dollar. After the
auctions of the Ministry of Finance, Treasury Actions and the US
government bond rates went down. If we focus on last month's events,
then the strategy of buying [GBPUSD][1] on the rebound from the supports
at 1.3565, 1.352, and 1.349 remains relevant. The reason for opening
longs may also be the optimism of the Bank of England.

The [EURGBP][2] bears continue to control the situation. The
implementation of [the 0.88 target][4] allowed to lock in profit. The
subsequent pullback is likely to provide a chance to enter the short
trades from a higher level and to sell ​​at a higher price. Until the
vaccination speed in the EU increased, euro sellers will feel confident.
Without progress in this direction, lockdown liftings, and rapid
recovery of the eurozone economy, the euro will continue weakening.



## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURGBP&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/pound-the-vaccine-changes-rules-of-game-forecast-as-of-26012021/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/pound-the-vaccine-changes-rules-of-game-forecast-as-of-26012021/