+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-04"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (4 February 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (4 February 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-04

2021-02-04

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 04.02.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Yesterday oil broke out strong resistance Target Zone 4 [54.72 - 54.21].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Yesterday in the medium-term chart, oil broke out strong resistance
Target Zone 4 [54.72 - 54.21]. If the bulls manage to consolidate above
the zone at the US trading session, the next growth target will be
Target Zone 5 [59.82 - 59.31].

The local short-term oil trend is up. Yesterday traders managed to
consolidate above Target Zone 3 [55.00 - 54.53]. The next growth target
is Gold Zone 3 [57.14 - 56.90].

It is profitable to enter new trades on the correction at strong support
zones: Additional Zone [55.08 - 54.96] and Intermediary Zone [53.95 -
53.72]. After testing strong zones, look for confirmation of the entry
in the form of the pattern.

Breakout of the Additional Zone support will allow considering the oil
sales in correction with the target at the Intermediary Zone.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [55.08 - 54.96]. TakeProfit: 56.19. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [53.95 - 53.72]. TakeProfit: 56.19. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

In the medium-term chart, gold is trying to break out the support level
of 1818. In case of consolidating beyond this level, look for an entry
point to the sell with the target in the Target Zone 2 [1759 - 1749].

According to the small-scale margin zones, gold is trading in a short-
term uptrend. The price is currently testing the trend key support [1825
- 1820]. If the price does not break out the support and a buy pattern
appears, it will be possible to enter a long trade and hold it up to the
upper Target Zone [1912 - 1902].

If traders break out the Intermediary Zone, and the price closes below
the level at the US session, the short-term trend will reverse down. In
this case, enter sales according to the pattern with the target in the
lower Target Zone [1775 - 1765].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1825 - 1820].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1912 - 1902]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD is trading in the medium-term downtrend in the medium-term
chart. The target for sales is Target Zone 2 [1.1981 - 1.1962]. Reaching
the support zone and holding it will allow considering buying in the
correction. A breakout of the level will mean a further price fall to
Target Zone 3 [1.1797 - 1.1778].

The EURUSD short-term trend is down. Several important economic reports
were published yesterday.

In January, inflation rebounded to the eurozone as electricity prices
rose and tax breaks to stimulate consumption in Germany ended. Consumer
prices rose by 0.9% YoY. The core CPI, which excludes volatile
components such as food and energy, rose to 1.4%, the highest value in
more than five years. This has a positive effect on the economy but
negative on the euro because increasing inflation leads to a
depreciation of the national currency.

Now the euro prices are trading in the support area of ​​the Target Zone
[1.2029 - 1.2013]. A breakout of the level will mean a further price
decline in the Gold Zone [1.1949 - 1.1941]. Holding the support will
allow considering purchases in the correction.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. If the price consolidates below Target Zone [1.2029 - 1.2013] - sell on retest. TakeProfit: Gold Zone [1.1949 - 1.1941]. StopLoss: 1.2052.

  2. Buy when the Additional Zone [1.2048 - 1.2044] is broken out. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1.2092 - 1.2084]. StopLoss: 1.2030.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-04022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-04022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus