+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-24"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (24 November 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (24 November 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-24

2020-11-24

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 24.11.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The oil price broke through the local high of November yesterday. Oil is
approaching the primary buy target Target Zone 2 [44.22 — 43.71].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The oil price broke through the local high of November yesterday. Oil is
approaching the primary buy target Target Zone 2 [44.22 — 43.71]. When
the price tests the resistance, I recommend exiting purchases and
expecting a correction.

If the price breaks out TZ2 and consolidates above, the next upside
target will be in Target Zone 3 [49.32 — 48.41].

It is clear from the short-term oil price chart that the local trend has
turned up. The price is breaking out Intermediary Zone [42.63 – 42.39]
and consolidating above.

There wasn’t a sell pattern yesterday. There appeared a pattern to buy
with a target in the upper Target Zone [45.24 – 44.77]. I recommend
holding the purchases entered in IZ at the breakeven up to the target.

The trend key support in the zone of [41.13 – 40.89]. Until the price
breaks this zone out, it is not relevant to sell oil.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Hold up buy trades entered in Intermediary Zone [42.63 - 42.39].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [45.24 - 44.77]. StopLoss: at the breakeven.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold price broke out the support zone of [1851.5 – 1848.7]. The middle-
term downtrend continues. It was not relevant to buy in the correction.

Bears are trying to break out Target Zone 2 [1829.4 – 1820.1]. If the
price breaks out the zone and consolidates below, we shall enter sell
trades with the target at Target Zone 3 [1736.0 – 1727.0].

The trend border is in the zone of [1947.8 — 1936.3].

Let us analyze the gold short-term trend. It is also down. The price
broke through the low o November 9 yesterday. Today, traders will try to
consolidate the price below Target Zone [1850.4 – 1838.9].

If the price consolidates below the zone, the next sell target will be
Gold Zone [1792.9 – 1787.2].

The strong resistance zones where one could enter sell trades at good
prices according to the patterns are:

  1. Additional Zone [1852.9 - 1850.0].

  2. Intermediary Zone [1884.5 - 1878.8].

The sell target will be to break through today’s low.

If the price breaks out AZ following the correction, we could buy gold
with a target at IZ.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1852.9 - 1850.0]. TakeProfit: 1822.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. If the price breaks out Additional Zone [1852.9 — 1850.0], buy. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1884.5 - 1878.8]. StopLoss: below the next local low.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Nothing has changed in the EURUSD medium-term chart. The middle-term
trend is up, the target is at Target Zone 2 [1.2032 – 1.2012]. The trend
key support where we can enter purchases at good prices is in the zone
of [1.1688 — 1.1664].

Let us look at the short-term EURUSD price chart. The short-term
downtrend continues, the target is at the lower Target Zone  [1.1688 -
1.1665]. Yesterday, the price dropped from the trend key resistance and
drew the sell pattern. The local support is in the zone of [1.1802 -
1.1791].

Today, I recommend selling the euro according to the pattern with
partial volume. When the price breaks through yesterday’s low, move the
trade to the breakeven.

An alternative scenario to buy the euro-dollar. It will work out if the
price breaks out Intermediary Zone [1.1873 - 1.1861] and closes above
the zone at the US session. In this case, the short-term trend will turn
up and we shall buy on the correction starting from the next trading
day.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1873 - 1.1861]. TakeProfit: 1.1747, Target Zone [1.1688 - 1.1665]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. If the price consolidates above level 1.1850, buy. TakeProfit: [1.2000 - 1.1977]. StopLoss: 1.1848.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-24112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-24112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus