+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-24"
description = "US dollar price forecast 24 November 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 24 November 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-24

2020-11-24

Dollar prepares for transition. Forecast as of 24.11.2020Dmitri
Demidenko

Lower political risks in the USA break the link between the [EURUSD][1]
and the US stock indexes. The euro needs fresh drivers. Let us discuss
the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

##  **Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast**

Although markets live in illusions (they ignore negative [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) and
respond to positive information), they acknowledge the reality from time
to time. How could the [EURUSD][1] be running up to 1.2 if the euro-area
PMI is down to the lowest level since May while the US PMI performs the
best growth over the last 5.5 years? The divergence in the economic
expansion sets the euro bulls back, but the correction will hardly be
deep.

The euro-area composite PMI was down from 50 to 45.1 in November.
According to Markit, it means the euro-area GDP should contract by 1.9%
in Q4. Oxford Economics expects a deeper downturn, by 2.6% quarterly.
The PMI drop is not as deep as it was in spring when the euro-area PMI
dropped by 40 points to 13.6 in two months, and the economy contracted
by 12% in the second quarter. However, the European economy is still
extremely weak. At the same time, US PMI hits the highest level since
March 2015 amid Joe Biden’s victory in the US presidential election and
positive [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) about vaccines.

### Dynamics of PMIs



 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

The correlation between the [EURUSD][1] and the [S&P 500][2] goes weak,
and the major currency pair needs fresh drivers. One of the drivers is
the divergence in economic growth. I have often noted that the US dollar
and the US stock indexes move in opposite directions during the market
turmoil. However, once the markets stabilize, the negative correlation
between the dollar and the stock market fades away. Donald Trump has
accepted a formal US transition should begin for President-elect Joe
Biden to take office. Joe Biden is to nominate Janet Yellen as Treasury
Secretary. This [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) suggests the US political risks are lower, and
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s should calm down.

I believe both the [S&P 500][2] and the [EURUSD][1] should enter
consolidation soon. In 2021, the euro and the US stock market will be
rising as the global economy will be recovering after the trade wars in
2018-2019 and the pandemic in 2020. Bloomberg expects global GDP to
shrink 4.1% this year and expand 4.9% next year, making risky assets the
favorites and safe-haven assets outsiders.

###  **Bloomberg forecasts for GDP**

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

A change in US-China trade relations should produce a strong effect.
Trump tries to worsen them before he leaves office. The new plan of his
administration provides for a coordinated allied response to the illegal
actions of China. They should buy back the exports of the affected
country (for example, Australia) and then use import tariffs against
China to offset their costs.

###  **Weekly[EURUSD][1] trading plan**

Such an approach lowers the US-EU trade war risks, which is a bullish
factor for the euro. The [EURUSD][1] long-term outlook remains bullish.
Therefore, it makes sense to follow the trading strategy [recommended
earlier][3] and buy the euro-dollar on the price fall, followed by a
rebound up from the supports at 1.18, 1.176, and 1.172.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/euro-chose-the-path-forecast-as-of-19112020/
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-prepares-for-transition-forecast-as-of-24112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-prepares-for-transition-forecast-as-of-24112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus