+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-09-08"
description = "US dollar price forecast 8 September 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 8 September 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-09-08

2021-09-08

Dollar won’t give up the plan. Forecast as of 08.09.2021Dmitri Demidenko

As the US GDP is slowing down, the [S&P 500][1] is getting more likely
to start a correction. Furthermore, the Fed is willing to act according
to the plan. So, the [EURUSD][2] bears are encouraged to go ahead. The
bulls, however, are not as weak as they used to be. Let us discuss the
Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

Based on the US jobs report, the US economic recovery will not be as
strong as previously thought. Delta forces Americans to stay at home,
and the White House said that local officials who want to extend
enhanced unemployment benefits can do so. This will negatively affect
employment, consumer spending, and GDP. Goldman Sachs has lowered its
forecast for US economic growth from 6% to 5.7% in the third quarter,
Oxford Economics - from 7.5% to 6% in 2021. Does growing pessimism mean
that the US dollar should be sold? No, it doesn’t!

### Dynamics of US GDP leading indicator

 _Source_ _:_ _Atlanta Fed_

In fact, even 6% growth is the fastest in 37 years. From 2010 to 2019,
the US economy expanded by an average of 2.3%. A slowdown in GDP in the
third quarter could discourage stock buyers. The corporate reporting
season is almost over. According to FactSet, profits for [S&P 500][1]
companies rose by an impressive 92% in the second quarter. But this
factor has already been priced in the stock index, which, in addition to
the GDP slowdown, problems with the US public debt ceiling, and
Congress’s approval of new fiscal stimulus projects, increases the risks
of the stock market correction. The [S&P 500][1] drawdown will support
the US dollar as a safe-haven asset.

The slowdown in the economy is not a reason for the Fed to abandon its
plans. So says the President of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis,
James Bullard. One of the FOMC's main hawks is convinced that they
should start tapering the QE in 2021 and complete the entire program in
the first half of 2022. There are much more vacancies in the USA than
those employed, and if COVID-19 is brought under control, US employment
will strengthen. Considering the August employment, an average increase
of 500,000 is important for Bullard, and the US labour market currently
corresponds to it.

The US, UK, and German bond yields are growing, which also proves that
neither the Fed nor other central banks will give up the plans for
monetary normalization. The greenback should strengthen in this
situation.

### Dynamics of bond yields

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

If the Fed is unwilling to give up its monetary normalization plans, why
should the ECB do? According to the consensus forecast of Reuters
experts, the European Central Bank at its meeting on September 9 will
reduce the monthly pace of asset purchases under the PEPP from €80
billion in August to €60 billion during the rest of the year. At the
same time, the hawkish surprise from Christine Lagarde and her
colleagues, according to Societe Generale, will allow [EURUSD][2] to
soar above 1.2. Rabobank believes that the euro rally is unlikely to
last long, as the ECB president will do everything possible to stop it.

### Weekly[ EURUSD][2] trading plan

The median forecast of Bloomberg experts suggests the [EURUSD][2] should
go up to 1.19 by the end of the year. The Euro is not as weak as it was.
The governments of France and Italy raise the GDP forecasts, and Germany
could increase the fiscal stimulus after elections. After all, the
EURUSD is consolidating in the range of 1.1825-1.1895 ahead of the ECB
meeting.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true