+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-30"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 30, 2020

June 30, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.06.2020Alex Rodiоnov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Last week, oil buyers were testing the resistance at Target Zone 5
[41.67 – 40.92]. They haven’t broken the zone out or consolidated the
price above. As a result, the price is now being corrected. The
correction target is likely to be the trend key support [33.64 — 32.86].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.06.2020][1]

Let us analyze the short-term oil price chart. The short-term trend is
up. Yesterday, the price reached the intraday resistance Additional Zone
[39.06 – 38.87] and drew a 1-2-3 buy pattern.

Today, we can trade this pattern and enter oil buy trades with the
target at the high of June 23.

An alternative oil trading scenario: the 1-2-3 pattern doesn’t work out,
and the price breaks out the trend key support [37.54 – 37.15].In this
case, the short-term oil trend will turn down, and the sell target will
be the lower Target Zone [33.64 — 32.86].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.06.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [37.54 - 37.15]. TakeProfit: 41.40. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules

  2. If Intermediary Zone [37.54 — 37.15] is broken out, sell at the market price. TakeProfit: Target Zone [33.64 - 32.86]. StopLoss: 38.20.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold is trading in the middle-term uptrend. Last week, the price broke
out Target Zone 5 [1757.2 – 1751.2] and consolidated above. The next
upside target is Target Zone 6 [1817.2 – 1811.2]. Enter gold purchases
on the correction in the trend key support zone at [1697.3 — 1689.1].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.06.2020][4]

Gold buyers cannot yet break out Target Zone [1771.3 – 1762.2]. This
zone is a strong resistance to the gold short-term uptrend. The price
will further grow towards Gold Zone [1812.5 – 1808.0] after it is
consolidated above level 1771.3.

The gold short-term uptrend continues. Additional Zone [1758.8 – 1756.8]
was tested the other day. The buyers reacted to the zone test, and the
price increased and reached another AZ that is the resistance. The
resistance zone is at [1770.0 – 1768.0].

Today, considering all gold trading signals, I recommend entering gold
sell trades according to the pattern in AZ [1770.0 – 1768.0] with the
target at the low of June 26 + Intermediary Zone [1738.3 — 1734.2].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.06.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1770.0 - 1768.0]. TakeProfit: 1748.0, Intermediary Zone [1738.3 - 1734.2]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1738.3 - 1734.2]. TakeProfit: 1778.5. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro to dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

EURUSD is trading in the middle-term downtrend, according to the margin
zones methodology. The downside target is Target Zone 2 [1.1058 –
1.1040]. The strong support that prevents the euro from a deeper fall is
Target Zone [1.1240 – 1.1222].

Traders are now trying to break out the support and form a 1-2-3 sell
pattern. If they succeed, we shall sell the euro according to the
pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.06.2020][7]

The EURUSD short-term trend is also down. Yesterday, traders were
testing Intermediary Zone [1.1290 – 1.1281]. This triggered a wave of
sell-offs, and the euro price dropped. However, there is not yet a
pattern to enter sell trades in the zone. There will be a sell pattern
when the price breaks through the low of June 26.

An alternative EUR/USD trading scenario suggests buying the euro. It
will be relevant if the price starts rising, breaks through the
yesterday’s high and breaks out Intermediary Zone. In this case, the buy
target will be the upper Target Zone [1.1390 — 1.1372].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.06.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:   **

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1290 - 1.1281].
TakeProfit: 1.1192, Target Zone [1.1166 - 1.1148]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 30.06.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_300620_1.png?w=30&s=2e0c30b97b23063091321b32e93c11ef
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_300620_2.png?w=30&s=ee430f3426bfc344627e5272743c67fd
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_300620_1.png?w=30&s=c7124491bb35c56863e6eceaaaf9bed5
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_300620_2.png?w=30&s=3244a5ef91d12de34700ca0802d11360
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_300620_1.png?w=30&s=00ca2d509e74fa70f56561ccfcf17de8
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_300620_2.png?w=30&s=d29da8dd172d1fefaf9571515846a5d5
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-30062020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-30062020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/oil_148.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=25080cf839546512778aa6d7bdb9becd