+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-30"
description = "EUR/USD forecast for July 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EUR/USD forecast for July 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 30, 2020

June 30, 2020

Forex in July: Vikings are on the warpathDmitri Demidenko

## US dollar forecast for July 2020

### In July, the Scandinavian currencies should perform the best, the
EUR/USD pair may start consolidation

Although the uptrend of the US stock indexes has slowed down, the bet on
the risky assets in [June][1], based on the statistical analysis with
fundamental components, has been winning. The euro to the dollar has
strengthened by more than 1%, the CAD has been 0.7% up, the AUD has
increased by 2.9%. The entire picture has been spoiled a bit by the
pound’s loss of 0.5% versus the greenback and by the Swiss franc drop
against the euro by 0.1%. However, the research of the seasonal
regularities of G10 performance in Forex has been generally an effective
investment strategy in June. So, it makes sense to study the changes in
Forex rates in July.

The best performers in July were Scandinavian currencies. The Swedish
krona closed in the green zone 25 times out of 45, the Norwegian krone
rose in 24 cases out of 45. The previous beneficiaries, the AUD and the
CAD, were among the outsiders in July.

### Periods of rise and fall

![LiteForex: EUR/USD forecast for July 2020][2]

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex analysis_

The study of averages and medians shows that the European currencies
were strong in July, while commodity currencies were often pressed down.
If this seasonal pattern repeats in 2020, the oil bulls will find it
much more difficult to draw the Brent and the WTI up than it has been
before. This may result from the escalation of the US-China trade war or
the second wave of the pandemic.

### Averages and Medians

![LiteForex: EUR/USD forecast for July 2020][3]

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex analysis_

In favorable periods, the Scandinavian currencies were 2.3%-2.4% up on
average. During the bear periods, the CAD and the AUD were down by 1.5%
and 2.4% on average.

### Dynamics of currencies in the periods of rise and fall

![LiteForex: EUR/USD forecast for July 2020][4]

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex analysis_

The growth of the two Scandinavian currencies in sync looks rather
surprising amid their general divergence in 2020. The Norwegian krone is
a G10 outsider, it has been 11% down since the year’s start, which
resulted from a sharp interest rate cut from 1.5% to zero to manage the
recession as the negative fallout of the pandemic. Unlike Norway, Sweden
prefers to hike interest rates, rather than to lower them. The  _R_
iksbank backs away from negative rates, which makes it different from
other central banks. Japan, the euro area, and Switzerland still hold
negative interest rates, while the USA and the UK discuss such a
possibility. After all, Sweden presents different approaches to other
global problems, including COVID-19.

I hope for the better, so I bet on the [AUD/USD][5] longs on the price
fall and [USD/CAD][6] shorts on the price rise. The factor of the
Riksbank’s monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) tightening has been mostly traded. However,
the gradual recovery of the Norwegian economy and the positive changes
in the oil market in the March-June period may be the reasons to sell
the [USD/NOK][7] and the EUR/NOK. I expect the [EUR/USD][8] to
consolidate in the range of 1.11-1.14 in July. This is because the US
stocks are stabilizing, and neither the euro nor the U.S. dollar had
previously strong seasonal patterns in July.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][9]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][10] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Forex in July: Vikings are on the warpath][11]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/forex-in-june-the-impossible-is-possible/
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/stat1-30-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=f72c47453a6f14a76abf5481597c9254
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/stat2-30-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=4a29f64a7ecd63a8acec9ff6b7bf5b62
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/stat3-30-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=7a78c89ab30e257672ff265fc13e9c34
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCAD&returnUrl=true
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDNOK&returnUrl=true
   8. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   9. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forex-in-july-vikings-are-on-the-warpath&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   10. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forex-in-july-vikings-are-on-the-warpath&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-forex-30-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=d5dca69c62103f68417cbe2d323ffa16