+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-30"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 30.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 30.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 30, 2020

June 30, 2020

Euro takes the initiativeDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental Euro forecast today

### Germany is more likely to have a V-shaped rebound than other world’s
economies

Hope is the last thing to die. The epidemiological situation is
deteriorating in the USA, and there are concerns about another lockdown
and a W-shaped recovery of the U.S. economy. Nevertheless, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s
still hope that the epic rally of the [S&P 500][1], which occurred in
the second quarter, will resume in the third quarter. The matter is not
only in the COVID-19 and speed of the GDP recovery trend but also in the
huge amounts of money held by the U.S. stocks bulls. Although the FOMC
tone is cautious, nobody is willing to go against the Fed.

According to Jerome Powell, the U.S. economy rebounded faster than the
central bank had expected, but “a full recovery is unlikely until people
are confident that it is safe to reengage in a broad range of
activities”. The Fed’s Chair has supported both the U.S. dollar, saying
that the path forward for the economy is extraordinarily uncertain, and
the U.S. stock indexes, whose trends are a kind of mirror of the GDP
recovery trend. The [S&P 500][1] was also supported by Larry Kudlow, the
president's chief economics adviser, who said that the idea of the
strong V-shaped recovery is still right there.

I still believe that the correction of the U.S. stock market will hardly
be deep, as it is not beneficial for either the White House or the Fed.
Furthermore, it is good that the euro takes the initiative more and more
often. Berlin tries to resolve the dispute between the Constitutional
court and the ECB, the euro-area economic data are improving, and the
improvement of the epidemiological situation in the euro area suggests
that the European economy should recover faster than the U.S. growth.

###  **Dynamics of COVID-19 [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) new cases**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 30.06.2020][2]

 _Source: Nordea Markets_

According to the German Finance Minister Olaf Scholz, the ECB has
convincingly demonstrated all the documents justifying the QE program,
so the German government sees no obstacles to the Bundesbank's continued
participation in the ECB's bond-buying program. An increase in the
inflation rate, positive forecasts for retail sales data, and huge
monetary and fiscal stimulus suggest that Germany’s economy is more
likely to follow a V-shaped recovery than any other world’s economy. The
export-led euro-area economy is also supported by China reporting the
growth of the manufacturing PMI and continuing to fulfill its trade
obligations to the United States.

As long as China is buying U.S. exports, financial markets can remain
clam. China bought only 19% of the declared $170 billion of US
agricultural products in the January-May period, according to Bloomberg,
but there was a global downturn. The global economic situation is
gradually improving, so everything should be alright.

###  **Dynamics of implementation of the commitments by China**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 30.06.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

My forecasts might seem too optimistic, but several reasons are
supporting this scenario. If the U.S. epidemiological situation
improves, the euro-area economy, including Germany, rebounds faster than
the U.S. growth, and there are no trade wars, the [EUR/USD][4] may well
hit 1.14 and 1.16.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Euro takes the initiative][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true&
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/covid-30-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=09d3d6e7718cbf5c8a4997ae3710db0c
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/trade-war-30-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=aa113ea84671d78e1860eb5775d8c4bc
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-takes-the-initiative&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-takes-the-initiative&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-30-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=2a7b70ea1d478a23d4c4252354fb061c