+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-20"
description = "Forecast for euro price for 20 October 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for euro price for 20 October 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-20

2020-10-20

If only euro could. Forecast for EURUSD for 20.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

Despite the second wave of COVID-19 and the rumors of the ECB’s monetary
stimulus expansion, the single European currency isn’t giving up. Let’s
talk about what is supporting the euro, and make a trading plan for
[EURUSD][1].

## Weekly fundamental forecast for euro

In spite of, not thanks to.

[EURUSD][1]’s yesterday rise could seem strange amid the US stock
indexes’ fall and the second pandemic wave in Europe. However, we need
simply to understand, what investment idea is prevailing in the market
these days. The euro’s descending move is seen as a mere correction.
Most [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are sure that Joe Biden’s victory at the elections on 3
November will weaken the dollar, whereas the vaccine will give a boost
to the whole global economy. In those circumstances, any hint at the
pair’s growth appears to a be a reason for buying it. No one wants to
miss the train that will go to the north sooner or later.

Formally, the reasons of [EURUSD][1]’s rally were Speaker of the US
House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi’s statement that a fiscal stimulus
deal is still likely to be made before the election, and the Fed’s
dovish comments.

 If the Democrats and the Republicans agree on economic help, [S&P
500][2]’s rally may continue, the global risk appetite will improve, and
the greenback’s position will worsen. Still, the market didn’t believe
Pelosi: a deal would raise Trump’s rating. What do the Democrats need
that for? Also, Pelosi’s statement sounded too ultimatum-like: if not on
Tuesday, then never!

Fed’s Vice Chair Richard Clarida asserts that GDP’s pullback is
connected in part with the Central bank’s and the Congress’ relief
packages. He thinks that both the lawmakers and the Fed will need to
provide additional support for GDP to continue recovering. Atlanta FED
President Raphael Bostic believes that some areas of the US economy
hardly ever recovered, or didn’t recover at all.

If the Fed is planning to provide an extra stimulus and GDP isn’t
recovering, how can we speak about any divergence between monetary
[policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) and economic growth, selling EURUSD in the short term?

During the fortnight ended on 13 October, hedge funds cut euro longs at
the fastest pace over the last 8 months.

### EURUSD and speculative positions in euro



 _Source: Bloomberg._

Still, speculative positions aren’t likely to become net shorts: the
negative US assets yield and Joe Biden’s probable victory don’t allow
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s to buy out dollars.

The Chinese yuan’s consolation may suggest the reasons of [EURUSD][1]’s
rise to the top of figure 17. In spite of the People’s bank’s intention
to put a spoke into [USDCNH][3] bears’ plans, the pair returned to the
area of its 18-month lows and is ready to update them. That will draw it
to the lowest value since July 2018. Investors overestimated the
negative impact of China’s GDP’s moderate growth in Q3, and paid
attention to strong statistics on industrial production and retail
sales.

### Weekly trading plan for [EURUSD][1]

I mentioned the yuan’s impact on the euro rate many times. Nevertheless,
the eurozone’s domestic problems will prevent [EURUSD][1] from
continuing the rally. The market is concerned about October’s data on
European PMI. Most likely, the traders will be selling the euro at
$1.178, $1.181 and $1.185 in the nearest time.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCNH&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=if-only-euro-could-forecast-for-eurusd-for-20102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=if-only-euro-could-forecast-for-eurusd-for-20102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus