+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-24"
description = "Trust in Fed is growing"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Trust in Fed is growing"
type = "post"
+++

April 24, 2020

April 24, 2020

Time for changesDmitri Demidenko

##  **Fed tries out new ideas and White House comes back to the strong
dollar [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)**

The White House - Fed relationship proved once again that silence is
true wisdom’s best reply.   The more Donald Trump talks, the less we
trust him. Meanwhile, trust in the current Fed chair has reached the
highest level since 2004, when Alan Greenspan was at the helm. Fifty-
eight percent of Gallup’s respondents believe that Jerome Powell will do
something that will be beneficial to economy. Interestingly, the lowest
trust in the Fed was in 2014, when Janet Yellen was confirmed as Chair.
And I understand that: men’s inner world is more complex while women’s
one is more unpredictable.

Donald Trump has changed a lot while governing the country. He would
criticize the Fed Chair for extremely high interest rates, if compared
to other countries, or for unwillingness to revive QE. As a true friend,
he would whisper in Powell’s ear: “Keep in touch! And drop in when
you’ve got money”.

> \- Mr President, judging by your statements, you understand that true
friends don’t grow on trees.

>

> \- You never can tell.

Jerome Powell gave Trump all he could: he cut the federal funds rate to
almost zero and promised to buy unlimited amounts of treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities.  No one is calling the Fed otherwise than
“positively crazy” or “stepping on a rake” these days. There are no
reasons for criticism, so it’s time to turn to other problems and
scapegoats. For example, negative oil prices or China.

Donald Trump asserted earlier that low prices of energy resources were a
boon to the US economy. But not that low!

> \- How much is oil?

>

> \- Free!

>

> \- Why so expensive?!

Amid the sharp collapse in oil demand and social isolation, the record
high oil production in the USA had three outcomes: lack of storage
facilities, slump of oil quotes to negative 37 USD per barrel and
intention to lift quarantine.

> \- Take grandpa out of the bunker! It’s time to pour oil there.



The US president can’t sleep well, thinking that China will stop
recession faster than the USA. He used to attack Beijing because his
predecessors turned a blind eye to China’s dishonest trading. Now it’s
time to find out who is guilty of the pandemic. The virus came from
Asia, so Donald Trump is trying to make everyone understand what the
Great Wall of China was built for. Apparently, not for nothing.

![LiteForex: Trust in Fed is growing][1]

Trump has changed his opinions radically. The best example is his new
attitude to the US dollar. He would say a strong dollar is evil. Now he
thinks the opposite: a strong US currency makes “everybody want to
invest in our country” because “people want the safety of our country.”
At the same time, new borrowings involve almost no difficulties as debt
service costs are low. Despite all these changes, the US president
remains active. So, we can’t say that people are washing hands DURING
the pandemic while Trump is washing his hands OF the pandemic.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][2]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][3] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Time for changes][4]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/great-china-24-04-20.jpg?w=30&s=249bc0591428daa34836f33c04ccfb21
   2. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=time-for-changes&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   3. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=time-for-changes&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/liteforex-blog-fedreserve-24-04-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=4ff560b2f152783e9972a4a5f13cac3a