+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-04-24"
description = "Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD"
type = "post"
+++

April 24, 2020

April 24, 2020

Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USDAlex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude –** **oil** ****

This week, the oil price reached Target Zone 4 [6.49 - 5.93] in the
medium-term downtrend. Next, at the end of the week, the price has been
corrected up to the key resistance [11.67 — 10.92].

The price is now trading in the resistance zone. Next wee, the middle-
term trend will be determined. If the Target Zone isn’t broken out and
there is a sell pattern, the local low could be slightly exceeded.

However, taking into account that oil is oversold, the most likely
scenario will be the breakout of the trend border and the trend should
turn up. In this case, we shall enter the purchases with the target at
Target Zone 2 [19.17 — 18.42].

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][1]

 **[USCrude][2]Trading tips for the upcoming week:**

Expect the breakout of Target Zone [11.67 — 10.92], after that, buy on
the retest. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [19.17 - 18.42]. StopLoss: below
the next local low.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

This week, gold price was down to the key support of the middle-term
downtrend [1663.9 – 1655.6]. Once the zone was tested, buyers have
reacted and formed a buy pattern. The pattern hasn’t yet been traded, so
one may enter purchases at the end of the week. The buy target will be
Target Zone 5 [1757.2 – 1751.2].

Next week, expect the breakthrough of the local high in the long-term
chart and the test of TZ5. Depending on whether it will be broken out or
held, the further scenario will be determined.

If TZ5 is broken out, the next target will be TZ 6 [1817.2 – 1811.2]. If
the resistance is held, we shall draw the new key support down form the
new local high and look for new gold purchases in the support zone.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][3]

 **[XAUUSD][4]  Trading tips for the upcoming week:**

Buy according to the pattern in Target Zone [1663.9 - 1655.6].
TakeProfit: Target Zone 5 [1757.2 - 1751.2]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

In the previous weekly analytics, I wrote:

“The EURUSD is approaching the strong support Target Zone 2 [1.0803 –
1.0786], which was being tested last week. In Target Zone 2, I recommend
exiting short trades entered this week.”

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][5]

The price reached Target Zone 2 and broke out the local low yesterday.
The trading recommendation to sell has worked out.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][6]

Now, we shall see if sellers will consolidate the price below the
support level. If they do, the next sell target for new sell positions
will be Target Zone 3 [1.0631 - 1.0614].

As the local low has been broken through, we should move the key
resistance to the trend. It is now at [1.0953 – 1.0935]. As the price
goes down, the resistance should be moved as well. When the price is
corrected up to the resistance, it will be relevant to look for new sell
entries.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][7]

 **[EURUSD][8]  Trading tips for the upcoming week:**

Sell according to the pattern in Target Zone [1.0953 - 1.0935].
TakeProfit: 1.0755. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][9]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][10] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][11]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/USCrude_analysis_240420.png?w=30&s=38a347c745c5e117f7059de312db81ed
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_240420.png?w=30&s=f5743ad30ce42fa0d27ddf8997d7d3b0
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_170420.png?w=30&s=7991fd63aa48671ddeb1e9dcb791c084
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_240420.png?w=30&s=310b9ce2da00a9b4768ee168f874fb88
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_240420_2.png?w=30&s=c403c4fd6993819f39eab8af8a70dc69
   8. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   9. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-2020-04-24&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   10. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-2020-04-24&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/forex_forecast.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=2e771c6cbd616ae82d744a1062b4458b