+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-03"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 03.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 03.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 3, 2020

July 3, 2020

Dollar throws a loopDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental US dollar forecast for today

### US economy faces a negative feedback loop

“The weaker is the economy, the stronger is the currency”. This is the
principle, according to which the US dollar is trading after the Fed has
cut the interest rates, turning the USD into a major safe-haven. US weak
domestic data have strengthened the dollar and vice versa. The US jobs
report signaled that the greenback can be rising even if the economic
data are strong. “The stronger is the economy, the stronger is the
currency”. It is just because the situation could be worse tomorrow. The
US economy faces a negative feedback loop. The increase in the
employment rate results in a jump of new COVID-19 cases, which is likely
to cause the loss of jobs soon.

The decline in the unemployment rate from 13.3% to 11.1%, the growth of
non-farm payrolls is a record single-month gain since the records
started in 1939 (+4.8 million), and an increase in the number of people
receiving unemployment benefits from 59,000 to 19.3 million suggest two
controversial scenarios. The first two indicators signal a V-shaped
recovery of the US economy, the latter one shows that people are still
being fired. However, the employment rate fails to reach the levels
recorded in February by approximately 14.7 million (9.6%), and
unemployment, according to forecasts of the Congressional Budget Office,
will not be able to return to the level of 3.5%, which was before the
pandemic, until the end of the next decade. CBO expects to see
unemployment at 10.5% at the end of 2020.

### Dynamics of U.S. employment

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 03.07.2020][1]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

In June, about 40% of the increase in payrolls was led by leisure and
hospitality. The report of the Labor Department considers only the first
half of the month, so there can well be a jump in new coronavirus cases
in the second half. The opening of hotels and restaurants is the best
environment for the coronavirus spread. The US has entered a negative
feedback cycle when a return to work results in a deterioration in the
epidemiological situation. The greater is the employment growth, the
more there are new COVID-19 cases. Until the pandemic is under control,
the US economy won’t recover. The US jobs report for June could be the
last positive reading before a deeper downturn. In July, the data could
show a different picture.

### Dynamics of new COVID-19 cases in the USA

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 03.07.2020][2]

 _Source: Financial Times._

The upcoming negative feedback loop “higher employment-more coronavirus
cases-lower employment” breaks the major investment idea of the past
three months, associated with a rise of the global risk appetite. That
is why the correlation of the [S&P 500][3] and the US dollar is getting
weaker, and the [EUR/USD][4] bulls have failed to break out the
resistance at 1.129. If the US economy is strong today and weak
tomorrow, the rally of the US stock can quickly turn into a fall. The
markets are rising on the expectations, and, when the expectations are
negative, it is better to be careful.

The Forex market is entering a period when the expectation of a disaster
(a W-shaped rebound of the US economy) is scarier than the disaster
itself. It is a favorable environment for the greenback. The US stock
market, as well as the euro, can only be supported by the coronavirus
vaccine. Until then, the breakout of the support at 1.122-1.1225 will
make the  [EUR/USD][4]  more likely to roll down to the important levels
of 1.119 and 1.117.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar throws a loop][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/payrolls-usa-03-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=1fd518269017c3ab09969a842b87fcb1
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/covid-usa-03-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=311e3fa67e13f44a232202987df9cdc9
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true&
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-throws-a-loop&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-throws-a-loop&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-03-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=ef0bccac785caddb3436d05561d81b86