+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-03"
description = "The world can cease being unipolar."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "The world can cease being unipolar."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 3, 2020

July 3, 2020

Dollar finds his throne shakenDmitri Demidenko

## The U.S. has the worst of both worlds and risks losing its authority

One wave of the pandemic has led the U.S. and the dollar to the throne,
the second wave could knock them off the throne. Yes, the Spanish flu
and the Great Depression, which followed, were far more destructive than
the COVID-19 and the current global recession, due to a greater death
rate and duration. However, the U.S. was governed by the great Franklin
Roosevelt at that time, who knew what he did, unlike the current U.S.
president, Donald Trump, who more and more often looks confused. World
War Two increased the power of those, who did not take part. After the
Second World War, the U.S. has taken over the world, now, it has the
worst of both worlds.

![LiteForex: The world can cease being unipolar.][1]

You should always be prepared that, at any moment, something that you
are not ready for can happen. Just a few months ago, the global
recession seemed not to touch the U.S., as if it had been something
going on in a different world. The U.S. stocks were rallying up, the
U.S. longest economic expansion seemed to last forever. Even the US-
China trade war didn’t cast a shadow of the US GDP outlook. Alas, but
the reality has turned out to be different. US accounts for one-quarter
of total global COVID-19 deaths. Americans remain barred from entering
the EU, the unemployment level is the highest since the post-war period.
On top of that, George Floyd's death revealed a problem of racial
discrimination.

If the further it goes, the worse it gets, one may need to change the
direction. The U.S. may need another president, who won’t act according
to the principle, “I don’t know what I want, but I’ll achieve it
anyway.” Donald Trump has been obsessed with the US stock indexes rally,
which is expected to help him be re-elected, his words often do not make
sense. The White House's mantra-like idea of the V-shaped recovery looks
like a utopia. The U.S. president talks about GDP rebound amid the
increase in the U.S. employment in June, however, it is clear already
now that there will be a drop in July. He praises Jerome Powell,
although the Fed’s chair paints a gloomy outlook for the US economy. The
S&P 500 is growing in both cases, however, the US stock indexes rally is
purely speculative. Once there is something wrong, the US stock market
could crash. With this regard, Trump’s remarks seem to result from
ignorance. But that’s how the world works, the knowledge is the power
for the smart and the abuse for the stupid.

![LiteForex: The world can cease being unipolar.][2]

The flattery of Jerome Powell is unexpected, as, over the past two
years, there has been a strong impression that the U.S. president
doesn’t digest him. After all, if someone cannot digest you, then you
are not eaten. The Fed looks realistic in a gloomy realm of shadows that
risks losing credibility.

![LiteForex: The world can cease being unipolar.][3]

The pandemic will change everything. The world can well cease being
unipolar. Investors would cease focusing on the Fed’s actions, the
dollar would cease playing the central role in the world financial
markets, the US default would cease being something unreal, and Donald
Trump, with his slogan “America is the first”, would go down in [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/)
as the president who witnessed the end of America’s glory days. If you
knew what should happen, you would prepare for it. After all, it also
doesn’t help sometimes.

> \- Why do you need an umbrella? The sun is shining.

>

> \- In case it rains...

>

> \- Oh, by the way, have you put a bulletproof vest on?

>

> \- What for?

>

> \- Just in case there are terrorists…

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar finds his throne shaken][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/hell-03-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=723a47ab180a1c75e7a8e7334ffffedf
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/smart-stupid-03-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=e12342930f68cfdd5ba9d0a5796263e8
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/digest-03-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=bacc5b93a2f69bb966dc65b7c33e818d
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=dollar-finds-his-throne-shaken&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=dollar-finds-his-throne-shaken&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/liteforex-blog-dollar-03-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=93950142d8c69036d520f369d4299d93