+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-06"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 06.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 06.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 6, 2020

July 6, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 06.07.2020Alex Rodiоnov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil middle-term uptrend continues. The price is now approaching Target
Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. The price can well break through the local high.

After the high is broken through, we shall see if buyers will
consolidate the price above the resistance. If they do, the next upside
target will be Target Zone 6 [49.17 — 48.42].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 06.07.2020][1]

Oil short-term trend is still up. Nothing has much changed in the
shorter timeframe. The growth target is the high of June 23. Expect the
price to reach the target and take the profit. The stop loss can be
moved below level 39.47, Friday's low.

It will be relevant to sell when the price breaks out Additional Zone
[38.68 – 38.49]. In this case, the first downside target will be
Intermediary Zone [37.54 — 37.15].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 06.07.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today: **

Hold up buy trades entered at level 39.00. TakeProfit: 41.40. StopLoss:
39.47.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold price is trading between Target Zone 5 [1757.2 - 1751.2] and Target
Zone 6 [1817.2 – 1811.2]. The middle-term trend is up. To enter new
middle-term buy positions, I suggest expecting the test of the key
support zone [1707.1 - 1699.0] and looking for a buy pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 06.07.2020][4]

Let us look at the shorter timeframe. Gold is trading in the short-term
uptrend, whose target is the high of July 1. The second target is Gold
Zone [1812.5 – 1808.0].

The price is now trading in the range between the support [1768.6 –
1766.6] and the resistance [1780.0 – 1778.0]. It will be relevant to
enter either sell or buy trades when the price goes outside the trading
range. In case of sell trades, the downside target will be Intermediary
Zone [1748.1 — 1744.0].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 06.07.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

Expect the price to exit the price range of [1780.0 - 1766.6] to enter
either buy or sell trades.

* * *

##  **Euro to dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

Last week, sellers didn’t break out the support at 1.1190. A natural
reaction to this event is the price growth. The growth target is the
high of June. I recommend opening middle-term buy trades.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 06.07.2020][7]

The eurusd short-term trend is technically down, but there are no sell
signals.

The price is now again approaching the trend key resistance [1.1285 -
1.1276]. I expect the price to break this zone out and the trend to turn
up. This scenario will work out if the US session closes the price above
the resistance today. The upside target in this case will be the upper
Target Zone [1.1385 — 1.1367].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 06.07.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

Expect the price to break out Intermediary Zone [1.1285 - 1.1276] and
consolidate above.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 06.07.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_060720_1.png?w=30&s=0be507bbe1d15571885beacdcff6deb7
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_060720_2.png?w=30&s=8fc8c669dc76e32e0a2eb8cf30a5927d
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_060720_1.png?w=30&s=7c6f4090bc320d63fd5b016ed95b79cc
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_060720_2.png?w=30&s=fa80fa1317d01d4dd779280660053389
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_060720_1.png?w=30&s=ba7d261a469b2eeec5ee14a1fe26a165
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_060720_2.png?w=30&s=2a433b0008e48db224c7a91e765dd97a
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-06072020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-06072020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_92.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=53b53cb6f2b1bebef92afb58438a7780