+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-06"
description = "AUD/USD forecast for 06.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "AUD/USD forecast for 06.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 6, 2020

July 6, 2020

The Reserve Bank of Australia bluffs and scares the AUDDmitri Demidenko

## Australian dollar forecast for today

### Open the AUD/USD positions according to the outcomes of the RBA
meeting

It is difficult to predict the currency trend if it depends on a non-
economic unpredictable factor. This results in controversial forecasts.
That was with the pound amid Brexit talks in 2018-2019. That is now with
the Australian dollar, which is very responsive to the global economic
growth that depends on the COVID-19 situation. According to Morgan
Stanley, The AUD/USD will be up to 0.73 at the end of 2020. JP Morgan
and Rabobank, on the contrary, see the Aussie down to the lowest levels
since the 1960s.

The AUD bulls bet on a faster GDP recovery in Australia than in other
advanced economies. The AUD/USD positive outlook results from the
increased risk appetite, rally of copper and iron ore, key components of
Australian exports, and a quick rebound of China’s economy. The Aussie
took advantage of the strong reading of China’s services PMI in June,
and the [AUD/USD][1] surged to the top of figure 69. Looking at the AUD
rally up from the lows hit in March, speculators have changed the AUD
market sentiment.

### Dynamics of Australian dollar speculative positions

![LiteForex: AUD/USD forecast for 06.07.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The AUD bears, on the contrary, believe that the global economic
recovery will take a long time, and the risks of the second coronavirus
wave and the escalation of the US-China trade war are high. 41% of
Bloomberg respondents expect Australia’s GDP to face a U-shaped
recovery, 34% vote for a W-shaped recovery. Australia is to close the
Victoria-New South Wales border in response to the COVID-19 outbreak.
Besides, Beijing isn’t fully meeting its obligations under the phase-one
trade deal signed in January. In the January-May period, China purchased
only $5.4 billion of $33 billion of the US agricultural products, $19.5
billion of $84 billion of industrial goods, and $2 billion of $25
billion of energy products. Some experts say China is unlikely to meet
purchase targets for the US imports in 2020.

### Forecasts for the shape of the Australian GDP recovery

![LiteForex: AUD/USD forecast for 06.07.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The RBA comments can put additional pressure on the Aussie. Ahead of the
central bank’s meeting in July, Philip Lowe said that it's really hard
to argue that the Australian dollar is overvalued. If he repeats this
phrase at the RBA meeting, the [AUD/USD][1] bears will go ahead. After
all, I believe this will be a good chance to buy the AUD at lower
prices. RBA resources are limited. It won’t cut the cash rate down from
the current levels, and the yield control [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) does not suggest the
regulator should interfere with the bond market rates, it has not bought
the government bonds for eight weeks.

I am positive about the AUD outlook. Australia will be able to manage
the COVID-19 outbreak as quickly as China. The US-China trade war will
hardly be resumed now, as Donald Trump is doing his best to avert the
crash of the US stock market. Furthermore, the economic recovery will be
faster in Australia and China than in other world’s leading countries.
So, I suggest new [AUD/USD][1] purchases with the [target of at least
0.72][4].

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

![The Reserve Bank of Australia bluffs and scares the AUD][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/aussie-dollar-cftc-06-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=29d55297c81a7b392b26f68a4de149b0
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/forecast-australia-gdp-06-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=37748759cd4fc6e920280c5c3cdfb5fa
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/aussie-works-wonders/
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=the-reserve-bank-of-australia-bluffs-and-scares-the-aud&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=the-reserve-bank-of-australia-bluffs-and-scares-the-aud&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-audusd-06-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=fdbfc780e60c85e1854a84a8cc511d66