+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-06"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 06.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 06.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 6, 2020

July 6, 2020

Hedge funds gave up on the dollarDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental US dollar forecast for today

### The US jobs report gave a good chance to exit EUR/USD shorts

Crisis results in many paradoxes. In the April-May period, the US
domestic data were getting worse, but the US stock indexes were growing.
In June, the US Economic Surprise index reached its all-time high, its
peer for the world’s largest countries reached the highest level since
2017. However, the number of coronavirus cases in the US and globally
continues increasing. The first puzzle has been solved, the stock market
usually recovers sooner than the GDP. The second one is yet to be
solved. The right answers are very important. They determine the future
trends of many financial assets, including the [EUR/USD.][1]

### Dynamics of Economic Surprise index and the number of confirmed
coronavirus cases



![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 06.07.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Frankly speaking, the market’s response to the US jobs report puzzled
me. The strong report has naturally pushed the S&P 500 up, but the US
dollar has risen too. The strengthening of safe havens contradicted to
the growth of the global risk appetite. Only the drop of the stock index
at the end of the trade session has clarified the situation somehow.
Investors worry that the economic data will be getting worse amid the
increase in the coronavirus cases and the risk of another lockdown.

Nonetheless, the greenback’s strengthening contradicts to the dollar
smile theory. At the final, third stage, the USD should be rising due to
the US GDP that should be rising faster than the global growth. But
things are different. China and the euro area are likely to recover
sooner than the US economy. The epidemiological situation in Europe and
Asia is better than in the USA. Beijing has taken unprecedented measures
to defeat COVID-19, the success of euro-area medical services, and the
size of the stimulus are impressive.

Therefore, the greenback rise amid a strong reading of the US employment
data is likely to be temporary. There also could have been a trap
organized by large traders. I noted that the correlation between the S&P
500 and the [EUR/USD][1] weakened in late June, but I associated this
with the positions rebalancing at the end of the quarter. The US jobs
report allowed hedge funds to get rid of the dollar. When everyone is
buying, it makes sense to sell.

I believe the close correlation between the US stock market and the
[EUR/USD ][1]should be soon back. The EUR/USD could drop if the growth
of coronavirus cases results in the death rate increase. It will press
down the S&P 500 and bring back the idea of another lockdown. The death
rate is not increasing, as the medical services are better now, and
there is a progress in the coronavirus treatment.

### Dynamics of the number of new COVID-19 cases and fatalities [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/)
change



![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 06.07.2020][3]

 _Source: Nordea Markets._

Besides, the US stock market is supported by the Fed, and it is not
recommended to go against the US central bank. As a result, I believe
that the correction of both the US stock indexes and the EUR/USD will
not be deep. I still stick to my previous [forecast ][4]for the
[EUR/USD][1] consolidation in the range of 1.11-1.14

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Hedge funds gave up on the dollar][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/surprise-covid-06-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=6a6c9c44d993cbb053f3e5590466df8b
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/covid-usa-06-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=347615b1323773cb992ba5812c2ea8d9
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/forex-in-july-vikings-are-on-the-warpath/
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=hedge-funds-gave-up-on-the-dollar&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=hedge-funds-gave-up-on-the-dollar&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-06-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=dcb4071fb1a4a57990b06d44f9b1dee7