+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-31"
description = "Elliot wave analysis for BTCUSD for 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Elliot wave analysis for BTCUSD for 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-31

2020-12-31

Bitcoin cryptocurrency forecast for 2021Roman Onegin

I welcome my readers!

This article deals with [bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/) predictions so that you can see major
scenarios to trade Bitcoin in 2021.

## Bitcoin forecast for 2021

##

The Bitcoin price chart below displays the [BTCUSD][1] market structure
since 2017. The vertical lines mark the start of the new trade year. I
want to explore the likely cryptocurrency trading scenarios to suggest
the price predictions for BTCUSD and other cryptocurrencies for 2021.

The periods of booming Bitcoin price growth occurred during the entire
2017, in the first half of 2019, and almost all the year 2020, except
for a few first months.

I would like to note two essential details. First, all growth streaks
have featured the so-called trend acceleration. It means the market
started rising slowly, forming a series of corrective waves and small
impulse waves. As the trend was developing, the price was growing
faster. For example, in 2017, the market was slowly climbing up in waves
[1]-[2]-[3]-[4]. However, the price soared very fast in the wave [5]. If
we looked at the internal structure of wave [5], we would see that the
fifth wave of wave [5] is also the most powerful. So, the trend
accelerates as it develops.

Because of this feature of the major cryptocurrencies, almost all
powerful trends look like an arc that gradually approaches a particular
imaginary vertical line but never reaches it. And the closer the market
is to this vertical line, the greater is the price change per unit of
time.

You are likely to remember the graphs of [functions](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/basic-functions/) studied in the course
of school mathematics. The representation of such patterns in the
cryptocurrency markets features a fast rise and gradual correction.
First, the market is rising very fast, and then, the price hits a kind
of ‘ceiling’ and starts sliding down slowly in a correction.

For example, at the end of 2017, the Bitcoin price reached a level of
20,000; the cryptocurrency traders were too excited; many bought the
cryptocurrency in the hope of its further rise. However, after reaching
the high of 20,000, the price rebounded and started declining, slowly
but steadily. There is such a regularity that the majority is always at
a loss. Once the majority of traders believe in further price growth,
the market reaches its ceiling, turns down, and starts declining.

The same was in the middle of 2019. First, the uptrend accelerated,
rising along the arc-shaped trajectory. Next, the price reached the
ceiling suddenly, turned down, and started falling. Furthermore, many
thought at that time that there began a new global wave of the BTCUSD
uptrend. However, the price didn’t continue growing; instead, it started
a long-term correction that lasted for about six months. You see now
that correction is the [Y] wave of the global correction 4.

I believe the current situation is similar to that of 2019. Almost the
whole year of 2020, the uptrend was accelerating. Now, just before the
new year, the market is flying up, hitting new all-time highs. The price
is rising almost vertically; the uptrend looks more and more similar to
the imaginary vertical line, which I schematically represented with a
dotted line.

The market is moving up very fast along the arc; the price can’t be
growing indefinitely. Judging by the wave's slope and its similarity to
the vertical dotted line, I can assume that the trend is close to its
ceiling. The price should soon hit a kind of limit and turn down.

I suppose the uptrend could end in late January 2021. First, all waves
will be well-proportioned and fit in the wave patterns. Second, I
suggest we consider the time cycles.

The first bullish trend that ended in late 2017 is the first pivot
point. The second important reversal point is in eighteen months, in the
middle of 2019. And the third pivot point should soon occur, as it has
been eighteen months since the second reversal. It seems in the current
market situation that the strong and fast bullish trends end, and the
price turns down once in eighteen months.

Of course, such a pattern would not always repeat. Nonetheless, I
believe the third pivot point is likely to emerge according to this time
cycle. Next, we shall explore the structure of wave patterns to
determine whether the market will end the growth wave in the middle of
2022.

I would also like to note that the price is sliding down quite slowly,
following those powerful arc-shaped uptrends. The price decline after
the trend is obviously a correction. So, I expect the [BTCUSD][1] to be
slowly declining during the entire 2021.

I drew an approximate trajectory of the Bitcoin price movement in the
chart. However, it is not yet clear what wave it will be.

The likely chart structure, I drew in the chart, so far satisfies the
requirements for predicting impulse 5. Impulse 5 could end at a level of
around 32,000. Next, when the bullish impulse ends and the down
correction starts, the wave structure could be revised, but the general
prediction for 2021 will remain the same.

## Conclusion

To sum up the article, I would like to note that now, just before 2021,
we should enjoy the final stage of the powerful Bitcoin uptrend. The
bulls could lose power soon. If so, the [BTCUSD][1] market should turn
down and start declining after it reaches a level of 32,000, which could
occur as soon as the second half of January 2021.

Happy New Year! I wish you good luck and good profit in 2021!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][2]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][3] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=[bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/)-cryptocurrency-forecast-for-2021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   3. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=[bitcoin](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-for-bitcoin/)-cryptocurrency-forecast-for-2021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus