+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-31"
description = "Forecast for financial assets for 31 December 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for financial assets for 31 December 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-31

2020-12-31

TOP five investment strategies for 2021. Forecast as of 31.12.2020Dmitri
Demidenko

Betting on the victory over the pandemic, the global economy's rapid
growth, and the underestimate, we can find currencies, commodities and
stocks that are worth a closer look in 2021.

The article covers the following subjects:

## East European currencies

They believe in the market that the euro's moves in 2021 will be similar
to those in 2017. Back then, the [EURUSD][1] soared by 17% amid a lower
political risk after Emmanuel Macron's victory over French eurosceptics,
the eurozone's GDP growing faster than its US peer - for the first time
in 10 years -, and Mario Draghi's hints about monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)
normalization. Today, the pent-up demand effect, the global trade's fast
growth, the unity within the EU and ECB President Christine Lagarde's
current penchant for hawks let us hope that the major currency pair will
continue rallying to at least 1.25-1.27.

###



 _Source: Nordea Markets._

When it comes to East European currencies, in 2017 they looked even
better than the euro: the Czech koruna rose by 18.6% and the Polish
zloty - by 18%. Only the Hungarian forint "dropped the ball",
consolidating by as little as 13%. I think [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) will repeat itself.
The currencies of the countries whose exports are mainly targeted on the
EU will be in their element. So, I recommend selling [USDPLN][2],
[USDCZK][3] and [USDHUF][4] on retracements.

## Platinum

Platinum has been the worst 2020 performer among precious metals. Its
cost rose as little as 11% while palladium, gold and silver grew 20%,
25%, and 49%, respectively. Nevertheless, the [XPTUSD][5] bulls don't
despair and plan to make up for missed profits in 2021. Sixty-two
percent of platinum is used in industrial production, with Europe and
China accounting for 50% of total demand for autocatalysts. These
regions' fast development in the coming year, producers' intention to
replace expensive materials with cheaper ones (palladium's cost is 2.2
times higher than platinum's) and transition to clean energy are drawing
a bright future for platinum.

World Platinum Investment Council forecasts that the demand for platinum
will exceed the supply by record 1.2 million ounces in 2020. There even
will be a deficit for the next few years. According to CRU Group, a
hydrogen vehicle will require four times more platinum than modern
diesel cars.

### Platinum market's evolution

 _Source: World Platinum Investment Council._

## Oil

Black gold is considered to be an indicator of the global economy's
health. Once it improves, oil prices rise. [Brent ][6]closed the year
2020 with minus 22% and [WTI][7] dropped 21%. The International Energy
Agency estimates that the pandemic-driven loss in global demand amounts
to nearly 10 million b/d. The demand is expected to grow to 96.9 million
b/d (+6 million b/d) next year, still remaining below the pre-crisis
value of 100 million b/d.

At the end of 2019, North Sea oil was trading at $65-70 a barrel. I
think it can return to those levels - not only because of demand, but
also because of limited supply. The US is unlikely to return to its
record high production rates, while the OPEC and Russia will be careful
as an increase in production can scare [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s and destabilise the
market. My advice will be buying [Brent][6] and [WTI][7].

## FTSE 100 index

The FTSE 100 index has been underperforming compared to its global peers
since 2016 when the referendum on the UK membership was held and
resulted in an unexpected Eurosceptics victory. A no-deal Brexit was
priced in the UK stocks as a bearish factor. However, the trade deal of
the UK and the EU signed at the very last moment has eliminated it.

### Dynamics of global stock indexes

###

###

 _Source: Bloomberg_

According to Boris Johnson, the trade deal brought about confidence,
which is the most important. The uncertainty, pressing down the UK
assets for many years, has eased at last. So, the UK stocks could be
booming up in 2021. In 2020, the[ FTSE 100][8] has lost about 13% in
value. In 2021, the bulls should at least gain back the lost points.

## Boeing stock

[Boeing][9] has faced severe problems so far. The company was already
challenged before 2020. There were crashes of two 737 MAX aircrafts,
which killed 346 people. As a result, Boeing was banned from using
machines of this type in March 2019. Considering that the 737 MAX orders
accounted for about 80% of total demand, this was a disaster for the
corporation. In 2020, COVID-19 worsened the situation, and Boeing stock
crashed to a seven-year low. So,[ Boeing][9] has been -33.5% this year,
which suggests the stock is now undervalued.

In late December, the Boeing 737 Max was back in service in the US after
the ban on this type of jets had been lifted in November. According to
Cirium,[ Boeing][9] plans to make 588 flights on 737 Max in January. The
jets are actively utilized in Brazil. Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA
performed 516 flights in December, Grupo Aeromexico SAB - 73. I believe
that everything will be fine in the States. I think the Boeing stock
should be rising in 2021. Besides, the rapid growth of the world economy
and tourism suggests that the[ Boeing][9] stock price should be up to
$335.



## Price chart of BA in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the authorâ€™s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDPLN&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCZK&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDHUF&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XPTUSD&returnUrl=true
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=UKBrent_n&returnUrl=true
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USCrude_n&returnUrl=true
   8. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=FTSE&returnUrl=true
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23BA&returnUrl=true