+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-23"
description = "Australian dollar price forecast 23 March 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Australian dollar price forecast 23 March 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-23

2021-03-23

Aussie is on a losing streak. Forecast as of 23.03.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The flood in Australia's eastern states will slow the country's economy
in the short term, and at the same time, will contribute to its rapid
recovery from the natural disaster. The main reason for the [AUDUSD][1]
correction is not related to the flood. Let us discuss the Forex outlook
and make up a trading plan

## Weekly Australian dollar fundamental forecast

Old growth drivers won't get you very far, especially if the competitors
have new ones. The main reasons for the 46% [AUDUSD][1] rally from the
March 2020 low to the February 2021 high were the rapid growth in iron
ore prices, the divergence in China's economic growth with the rest of
the world due to the pandemic, and, finally, hopes for improving
relations between Washington and Beijing after Joe Biden's victory. This
year the Aussie's benefits do not look as promising as in the past,
while the greenback has a very serious reason for strengthening - the
rapidly growing Treasury yields.

Due to interruptions in Brazil and Australia's supplies and strong
demand from China, iron ore became the most efficient instrument of the
2020 commodity market. Its price increased by 75%. At the beginning of
March it even rose to $175 per ton, which is the highest level since
September 2011. However, talk that Beijing will soon announce new
emission reduction measures have pushed futures prices down to $167.
China's steel industry accounts for about 15% of all pollution, and it
is rumored that the country will implement policies that restrict blast
furnace steel production.

Although China's industrial production and retail sales grew by 30% or
more in March, last year's low base is the primary reason. At the same
time, the mutual accusations between Beijing and Washington during their
Alaska meeting and the imposition of sanctions against China for
violating Uighur rights indicate that a thaw in relations will not come
soon.

In 2021, the greenback has a new growth driver - a rally in US Treasury
bond yields. Bank of America Merrill Lynch notes that the combined
movement of debt and equity has become the most negative since 1999. The
fall in Treasuries stimulates the sell-off in the tech sector, which is
starting to look overvalued.

### Correlation dynamics of the US stock and bond markets

 _Source: Bloomberg._

[AUDUSD][1] bulls' troubles are increasing as the RBA is committed to
targeting Australia's 3-year bond yields. Widening gap between
Australian and US bond yields increases the demand for Treasuries,
supporting the capital inflow into the US. As a result, the Aussie found
itself in the same situation as the Japanese yen, the issuing central
bank of which is pursuing a similar [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/).

### Dynamics of asset purchases and bond yields in Australia and Japan

 _Source: Bloomberg._

### Weekly [AUDUSD][1] and monthly [AUDCAD][2] trading plans

In my opinion, the situation is not so gloomy. China will be one of the
primary beneficiaries of Joe Biden's fiscal stimulus, and the trade war
is unlikely to resume. Moreover, the recovery of the Australian economy
after the floods will help strengthen the national currency. If the
[AUDUSD][1] bears fail to consolidate the price below 0.76-0.7615, it
will be possible to start buying the pair. Against the backdrop of iron
ore problems, [AUDCAD][2] sales with targets at 0.956 and 0.949 look
profitable.







## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDCAD&returnUrl=true