+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-23"
description = "Crude Oil Price Forecast & Predictions for 2021, 2022-2025 and Beyond"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Crude Oil Price Forecast & Predictions for 2021, 2022-2025 and Beyond"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-23

2021-03-23

Crude Oil Price Forecast: 2021 and BeyondJana Kane

The oil price is an important indicator of the economy. Oil is the most
used resource in the world; many wars have raged over black gold. The
cost of crude oil is closely monitored by everyone - especially since
the corona crisis; many [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are looking for the price expectations
for the coming period. After reading this article, you will be aware of
all developments in this exciting sector. We'll discuss our oil price
expectations for 2021 and beyond. We'll also discuss the oil brands
Brent and WTI, in particular, as we go in-depth on the [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) of this
commodity and look at the oil price forecast.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil Brands

When talking about the commodity oil traded on the financial markets, we
can distinguish two types. The most popular, and also the most traded,
is the American oil called WTI. The other popular variant is Brent.

### West Texas Intermediate (WTI)

Light sweet crude oil (WTI) is widely used in US refineries and an
important benchmark for oil prices. WTI is a light oil with a high API
density and low sulfur content. This determines the density of the oil
in relation to water. WTI oil is widely traded between oil companies and
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s. Most trading is done through futures through CME Group. The
Light Sweet Crude Oil (CL) future is [one of the most traded futures][1]
worldwide.

Most of the oil of this type is stored in Cushing, an important hub for
Oklahoma's oil industry. Here are large storage tanks connected to
pipelines that transport the oil to all United States regions. WTI is an
important feedstock for refineries in the Midwestern United States and
on the coast of the Gulf of Mexico.

### Brent Crude Oil

Brent oil is an important benchmark for petroleum rate, especially in
Europe, Africa, and the Middle East. Its name is derived from the Brent
oil field in the North Sea. This Royal Dutch Shell oil field was once
one of Britain's most productive oil fields, but most of the platforms
there have since been decommissioned.

The correlation between these two futures' price development is high,
and we have seen several times in recent years that Brent's price was
more than $10 higher than usual. At the end of 2020, the difference was
[approximately $3][2]. Such differences are caused, among other things,
by supply and demand, including the costs for shipping or storing oil.

## A Recent History of Oil

At the end of April 2020 (due to the Saudi and Russia conflict - more on
that later), the oil price crashed, and the May WTI future even dipped
below $0. The stock markets recovered strongly during the summer, and
the oil price had also found its way up again. In August, the oil price
rose well above $ 40 a barrel. With that price, the largest oil
companies got some air also, but it is still far from enough for most to
make a profit.

At the beginning of September, the oil price had suddenly fallen hard
again. Simultaneously, with the mini-crash with the US stock markets, a
crude oil barrel's worth dropped by about 15% to below $37 a barrel.
This brought the oil price back below $40 a barrel for the first time
since July. The drop is partly because Saudi Arabia had lowered its
sales prices for October and the fear that the number of COVID-19
infections will increase rapidly in several countries.

The rebound in the number of infections could thwart the global economic
recovery and decrease fuel demand. With several refineries lowering
tariffs again, it seems they want to prevent oil stocks from rising back
to record levels. The oil price was able to recover so strongly in
recent months, thanks to the OPEC + countries' agreements regarding the
reduction in production. However, due to the crisis, many countries are
looking for additional income sources. Therefore, some countries are not
fully complying with the agreements made. As a result, more oil flows
into the market, which also has a depressing effect on oil prices.

### March 9th, 2020: 30% Oil Price Crash

Monday, March 9th, can go into the [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) books as "Black Monday" for
the oil price. Negotiations between Saudi Arabia and Russia had come to
nothing.

The oil price was under pressure in previous months due to the spread of
the coronavirus. The world economy was on the back burner, and as a
result, the oil demand had declined considerably. By limiting oil
production, the countries that are part of the oil cartel hoped to
stabilize or increase the price themselves. Saudi Arabia, in particular,
is strongly in favor of limiting oil production.

Saudi Arabia was now trying to force Russia in another way to join the
OPEC plan. The Saudi’s were going to increase production considerably
and flood the market with oil. As a result, the price of a crude oil
barrel had opened more than 30% lower, the lowest price since 2016. A
low oil price is disastrous for most countries. Most OPEC countries are
almost entirely dependent on oil revenues.

America's shale farmers may be hit hardest. The shale revolution seems
to be built more and more on quicksand, as costs remain high and the new
resources that are found have a much shorter lifespan. Even with an oil
price of around $60 a barrel, many of these producers were already
struggling. The unrest surrounding the coronavirus also makes it
difficult to raise external capital. With Saudi Arabia pushing the oil
price further down, the situation seems to be untenable for many
producers. Players with a fragile balance and relatively high costs are
unlikely to make it. What Saudi Arabia failed to achieve in 2016 now
seemed to have a good chance of success.

### April 21st, 2020: WTI Goes Below Zero

In April 2020, we saw a situation in the oil markets that has never
occurred before. The West Texas Intermediate Crude Oil (WTI) futures
contract for May fell more than 100%. The price fell during the day and
took an unprecedented dive later in the evening to $ -37.63/barrel,
meaning that oil producers would indeed have to pay buyers to collect
the oil.

This is mainly because the storage capacity in Cushing, Oklahoma is
full. And it is precisely there that this oil is delivered. Traders and
large companies who were long yesterday but ran out of storage capacity
or liquidity to purchase oil were forced to close futures before expiry.

## Shale Oil Influence

Oil production increased rapidly, and OPEC was not happy about this.
They saw the increase in supply in the Middle East as competition. OPEC,
therefore, came up with the idea of ​​fully opening the oil taps. The
production costs of shale oil were many times higher. The result was a
drop in oil prices from about $110 a barrel to below $30 at the
beginning of 2016. OPEC hoped to wipe out shale farmers in this way.

This strategy failed, and the OPEC countries themselves ultimately
suffered considerable disadvantages from this strategy. For years they
saw their income more than halved. In the meantime, the shale farmers
have learned to work cheaper and more efficiently, and they are already
profitable at a lower oil price. What’s typical of this form of oil
extraction is that production can be increased quickly.

## OPEC Influence

Demand for oil will remain stable in the coming years. But it is also
apparent that there is a lot of extra supply on the market now that
American oil production is rapidly increasing. Shale oil, in particular,
is extracted from the ground here. The shale revolution was set in
motion in 2014 by the sharp rise in oil prices. This form of oil
extraction was therefore profitable, despite the high production costs.
Due to the attractive market, the oil companies sprang up like
mushrooms.

OPEC is trying to limit production to keep the oil price at a reasonable
level. Most countries benefit from a somewhat higher, but in any case,
stable, oil price. According to OPEC, the oil industry must invest more
than $11,000 billion over the next 20 years. If producers don't do that,
there will be a shortage. In principle, shale farmers have already
invested enough in recent years to absorb a large part of these
shortages.

Furthermore, OPEC states that demand continues to increase despite the
emergence of electric cars and the like. OPEC writes that the massive
expansion of air travel creates a greater demand for oil than the
emergence of alternative energy sources can diminish.

Since the low oil price in 2016, OPEC has been trying to support the low
oil price. This is done by agreeing on production restrictions with all
countries that are members of OPEC. The agreements do not always go
smoothly, as Iran and Iraq do not always adhere to these agreements. On
the other hand, the US and other countries continue to produce more and
more oil, putting oil prices under pressure for a long time.

## Oil Price Today

At the time of writing (December 21, 2020), the price of WTI Crude Oil
was 47.44 USD/barrel, while Brent Crude Oil was selling for 50.61
USD/barrel.

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The oil price for today is $57.363. The chart below is interactive, so
you can easily see the dynamics.

## Experts Predict: What is long-range forecast for crude oil price?

The global oil demand will be about seven million barrels per day higher
next year than this year. That is predicted by the oil-producing
countries, which collaborate in OPEC, in a published report with
expectations for 2021.

This increase is unprecedentedly large but can be explained by the fact
that oil demand is now very low due to the corona crisis. The upward
path will be resumed next year, according to the expectations of the
oil-producing countries. OPEC notes that this will only happen if there
are no negative global developments by 2021, such as a new wave of
corona infections and a flaring trade war between China and the United
States.

This year, the oil price took a nosedive. The reason for this was the
sharp fall in demand for oil, which fell by a third. The cause was, of
course, the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown measures
worldwide. Even according to OPEC's optimistic scenario, oil demand
would not return to 2019 levels next year. The increased popularity of
working from home is partly responsible for this.

The corona crisis ensured that production was stopped for a long time.
As a result of the corona measures, production was (temporarily)
restricted. This also impacted the oil market because the production
activities are of great importance to the oil sector. After all, many
production companies use oil during their production process. As a
result, a large part of the oil demand fell. Air and road traffic was
also largely at a standstill, leading to declining demand for oil.

Despite these negative aspects, Goldman Sachs sees the oil future as
rosy. For example, the below chart from Goldman Sachs shows the forecast
for the oil price. The American investment bank expects a barrel of
Brent oil to rise towards $65 in 2021. Calculated from the current
price, this means a price increase of almost 50%.

According to Goldman Sachs analysts, oil demand will largely recover due
to the improving global economy. This picture is already visible,
particularly in Asia. The American investment bank also expects OPEC to
stick to the oil measures for a long time. These measures ensure that
the balance between supply and demand in the oil market is maintained.

## Crude Oil Technical Analysis

Technical analysis of WTI crude oil with the [USCrude][3] ticker. Let's
look at the monthly timeframe.

An intense bullish trend, that serves as a correction after a sharp drop
in early 2020, is highlighted in the chart above

Blue dots in the Oil/USD chart mark candles, the peaks of which have set
key levels. Typically, such zones are characterized by a surge in market
volume.

One of the oldest levels is at 63.40 USD. It was marked by a candle in
May 2015. This level was broken out only in April 2018. However, the
price could not stay there and, after updating the [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) maximum at
the level of 76.79 USD, went down. Thus, a strong resistance zone was
formed within levels 63.40 - 76.80.

Due to the panic in the markets caused by the global pandemic, in early
2020, the futures price dropped to a record low of 3.42 USD. The rebound
from this value served as an impulse for a full-scale bullish
correction.

The Brent oil price has already approached the lower border of 63.40 -
76.80 zone. However, to discuss further price movement, it is important
to conduct technical analysis on lower timeframes.

### Crude oil price prediction for next three months



The chart above shows the oil technical analysis of the weekly time
frame. The bearish divergence serves as the signal for the bullish
trend's probable end. It is marked with purple lines on the price chart
and the [MACD indicator](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/macd.html).

The chart also shows that a decrease in the trading volume occurs along
with the price rise. At the same time, there is a volume growth on the
last few candles, which confirms the strong seller resistance level at
the level of 63.40 USD. It is another proof of the high bearish
potential.

After analyzing the [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) of oil prices, the fractal of the price
movement can be observed. It looks like a bullish correction with a
transition to flat. This pattern culminates in a strong downward
impulse.

In 2019 the peak of the bullish correction crossed the key level of
63.40 USD and went sideways. Due to the flat movement, a local trade
range with a lower border at 50.70 USD was formed.

If to follow this logic, now the bullish correction has also crossed the
previous fractal's key level. A further downward rollback would be
reasonable. Thus, prices in the next quarter are likely to reach the
mark of 34, and then it is expected to fall down to 3.42 USD.

### What will be the price of oil in 2021?

Thus, until the end of 2021, most of the time, the [USCrude][3] price
will be in a wide price range of 34 - 63.40 USD. At the same time, there
is a high probability of a repeated downward movement towards the target
of 3.4 USD in late 2022 or early 2023.

Having analyzed the past dynamics of the oil price and its quadratic
dispersion using [Bollinger Bands](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/bollinger-bands.html), it is possible to build a projection
in which, according to the most realistic forecast described above, the
future price will be located.

The chart above shows a projected oil price according to technical
analysis.

The table below provides [USCrude][3] rate’s minimum and maximum
expected values for each month.

Month

|

USCrude price  
  
---|---  
  
Minimum

|

Maximum  
  
March 2021

|

51,80

|

67,94  
  
April

 2021

|

46,30

|

62,40  
  
May 2021

|

35,20

|

53,90  
  
June 2021

|

28,90

|

46,50  
  
July 2021

|

33,50

|

57,50  
  
August

 2021

|

40,50

|

64,50  
  
September

 2021

|

43,40

|

62,40  
  
October

 2021

|

35,60

|

57,37  
  
November

 2021

|

30

|

53  
  
December

 2021

|

32,30

|

51,60  
  
[Check short-term oil forecasts][4] and trading signals based on
technical analysis and margin zones in our blog!

[USCrude][3] Technical analysis is presented by [Mikhail Hypov][5].

## Oil weekly price forecast as of 22.03.2021

The trading idea to sell oil at the breakout of level 63.32 worked out
last week. The price reached Target Zone 2, 58.80 – 58.34, and the
medium-term trend turned down.

The price is now being corrected up to the border of the new trend 63.32
- 62.83. This week, it is relevant to look for new oil sales with the
target at 59.43.

The trend will turn up if the price breaks out the resistance 63.32 at
two US sessions above. If so, it will be relevant to buy oil with the
target at the high of 2021.

### [USCrude][6] Trading ideas for the week:

Sell according to the pattern in Target Zone 63.32 - 62.83. TakeProfit:
59.43. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

 _Technical analysis based on margin zones methodology was provided by
an independent analyst_[ _Alex Rodionov_][4] _._

## Oil Price Forecast 2025 – 2050*

The EIA [predicted][7] that, by 2025, Brent crude oil's nominal price
would rise to $79/b. By 2030, world demand may drive Brent prices to
$98/b. By 2040, prices are projected to be $146/b, because the cheap oil
sources will then have been exhausted, making it more costly to extract
the black gold. By 2050, oil prices are projected to be $214/b,
according to the EIA's Annual Energy Outlook. The EIA assumes that
petroleum demand will flatten when the focus is more on natural gas and
[renewable energy][8]. It also predicts economic growth of around 2%
annually, while assuming and energy consumption decrease by 0.4% a year.

Although it seems ludicrous now, some situations could put oil prices as
high as $200 a barrel. The EIA [forecast][7] Brent oil prices of $214/b
in 2050 if the cost to produce oil drops and crowds out competing energy
sources.

In July 2008, oil prices reached a record high of around $133/b. Then
they dropped to about $40/b in December before [rising to $123/b][9] in
April 2011. The [Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development][10] (OECD) previously forecasted that Brent might go as
high as $270/b. The OECD based its prediction on skyrocketing demand
from China and other emerging markets.

*Important reminder: remember that long-term price forecasts for any investment asset are very approximate and may change due to various factors. Read on to find out which factors may affect the price of crude oil.

## How Did the Price of Crude Oil Change Over Time?

Below is a chart showing the price for West Texas Intermediate (NYMEX)
Crude Oil over the last 5 years. The shown prices are in U.S. dollars.
On the chart, you can clearly see the monstrous drop that happened
earlier this year, and how the price has been going up and stabilizing
in the months thereafter.

 _Source: macrotrends.net_

## Factors That May Affect the Price of Crude Oil

We know that oil is an indispensable raw material in the world and that
it is used both as raw material and fuel to make plastics,
pharmaceuticals, and many other products. Hence, the demand for oil
remains strong, and these industries' health will determine most of the
world's oil demand. If demand from these industries increases while
production stagnates, it will lead to higher prices for this commodity.
Of course, and vice versa, if these industries are in a recession, their
oil demand will be lower, so demand will decline. If production remains
stable or increases in this case, it will logically lead to a drop in
the price of a crude oil barrel.

As you will have understood, it is mainly by analyzing the difference
between supply and demand that you will determine how the price or price
of crude oil will evolve.

It should also be noted that this analysis is slightly more complex
today than it used to be. Until a few years ago, it was pretty easy to
understand how these prices would behave. At the time, the US was the
largest consumer of crude oil. On the other hand, OPEC was the main
supplier to the market in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of production. But over time and the
years, this situation has become more complex and slightly more
confusing. One explanation for this phenomenon is that oil drilling
technologies have improved greatly and resulted in better supply.
Besides, we have seen the emergence of alternative solutions for this
production. Finally, new players have also joined, including China, a
major oil consumer in the world.

Below we have listed factors that change the supply or demand for oil
and thus contribute to the evolution of this commodity's price and
price.

  1. Production data in barrels per day from OPEC countries. Too much production generally leads to lower oil prices per barrel and vice versa. US crude oil inventories data is published weekly, which also affects WTI. 

  2. Supply, which is published weekly on the economic [calendar](https://www.fintechee.com/web-trader/). Big supply also contributes to falling prices, while little supply leads to higher prices.

  3. The international geopolitical situation. Conflicts affecting the oil-producing and exporting countries often influence the development of the price per barrel.

  4. The value of the US dollar on the currency market. As a barrel of oil is denominated in dollars, this currency will be weaker, and more oil purchases will be stimulated by holders of other currencies.

## Conclusion: Is Oil a Good Investment?

When a product becomes scarcer, the price will rise because the demand
will continue for a while. The earth will soon be exhausted, and there
will be no more oil; therefore, oil is a good investment. It is not that
investing in oil makes you rich in the short term, like the stock market
and other assets can, but oil certainly has its positive aspects. If, in
these uncertain times, you are now looking for investments that will
certainly increase in value in the future and an asset that is easily
accessible to individuals, then investing in petroleum is probably
something for you.

Oil is an attractive investment, even if the market price fluctuates a
lot, but the investment often becomes favorable in the long term. Oil is
a limited commodity, and its price appears to have stabilized at some
price point. The oil price is likely to increase significantly in the
future due to the lack of solutions to these shortages in the near
future. Until oil replacement is found, economies worldwide will remain
dependent on oil.

 **Month**

|

 **Open**

|

 **Low-High**

|

 **Close**

|

 **Mo,%**

|

 **Total,%**  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
2020  
  
Dec

|

47.29

|

46.82-54.94

|

54.13

|

14.5%

|

14.5%  
  
2021  
  
Jan

|

54.13

|

54.13-57.73

|

56.88

|

5.1%

|

20.3%  
  
Feb

|

56.88

|

56.88-61.32

|

60.41

|

6.2%

|

27.7%  
  
Mar

|

60.41

|

55.81-60.41

|

56.66

|

-6.2%

|

19.8%  
  
Apr

|

56.66

|

52.35-56.66

|

53.15

|

-6.2%

|

12.4%  
  
May

|

53.15

|

53.15-57.22

|

56.37

|

6.1%

|

19.2%  
  
Jun

|

56.37

|

56.37-58.81

|

57.94

|

2.8%

|

22.5%  
  
Jul

|

57.94

|

57.94-62.45

|

61.53

|

6.2%

|

30.1%  
  
Aug

|

61.53

|

61.53-66.32

|

65.34

|

6.2%

|

38.2%  
  
Sep

|

65.34

|

65.34-69.17

|

68.15

|

4.3%

|

44.1%  
  
Oct

|

68.15

|

62.96-68.15

|

63.92

|

-6.2%

|

35.2%  
  
Nov

|

63.92

|

59.06-63.92

|

59.96

|

-6.2%

|

26.8%  
  
Dec

|

59.96

|

55.40-59.96

|

56.24

|

-6.2%

|

18.9%  
  
Make sure to create a free demo account on [LiteForex][11]! LiteForex is
a useful platform for both novice and expert traders. You will be up to
date on interesting updates about crude oil as an investment asset, and
the user-friendly interface will come in handy if you decide to trade
crude oil or any other commodity.If you look at the price changes of oil
for a while now, you will start to see a pattern, and as an [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/),
you can respond smartly to this. In this way, the [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/) can
significantly boost his investment amount with the profits from oil. If
you want to invest in oil, it is a good investment to get in when the
oil price is at a certain bottom. If you step in right now, investing in
oil is a solid and profitable investment for the future. Of course,
there is no guarantee that oil prices will ever rise as much as in the
past, but a regular rise can mean a lot to the [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/). Oil is a
limited resource and is probably the most precious material in the
world. Investing in this commodity is one way to improve your overall
investment portfolio.

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.barchart.com/futures/most-active/all
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USCrude_n
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USCrude
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/?author=65
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/?author=72
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   7. www.eia.gov/outlooks/aeo/index.php
   8. www.thebalance.com/renewable-energy-industry-current-state-trends-outlook-4684187
   9. www.eia.gov/dnav/pet/hist/LeafHandler.ashx?n=PET&s=RBRTE&f=M
   10. www.thebalance.com/organization-economic-cooperation-development-3305871
   11. www.liteforex.com/