+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-23"
description = "US dollar price forecast 23 March 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 23 March 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=14.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-23

2021-03-23

Dollar is prone to volatility. Forecast as of 23.03.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The former US dollar growth drivers could crash it now. The Forex market
situation is always changing, and traders should be cautious not to face
a loss. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a [EURUSD][1]
trading plan.

## Monthly US dollar fundamental forecast

How fast the Forex market changes! In 2018-2019, US-China trade wars
strengthened the US dollar. In 2021, the trade war escalation could
weaken the greenback. The tone of the talks between Washington and
Beijing in Alaska was cold, and the United States, the European Union,
the United Kingdom, and Canada imposed sanctions against China for human
rights abuses related to the Uighur minority in Xinjiang. Investors’
demand for the US Treasuries surged. The 10-year Treasury yield dropped,
the tech stocks increased, and the [EURUSD][1] tested the important
level of 1.193.

The Treasury yield rally has been the major growth driver for the
greenback in 2021. According to Bloomberg, holding dollar shorts would
have yielded [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s about a 2% loss this year after being a
profitable strategy in eight of the nine months through to December. For
the first time since November, hedge funds became net buyers of the
dollar against seven major currencies during the week to March 16.

### Dynamics of USD index and dollar speculative positions

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Speculators see Treasury yields soaring to 2% amid a global recovery
spurred by vaccine rollouts and stimulus spending. Joe Biden is willing
to add more stimulus. After the adoption of a $1.9 trillion aid package
by Congress, Biden’s team, according to a Bloomberg source, is preparing
a new project of $3 trillion. The money will be spent on infrastructure
and green technologies. Rich Americans will have to pay for the aid
package, as they have significantly increased their savings amid the
pandemic and recession. According to the US President, those who earn
more than $400 thousand a year should prepare for a tax hike.

While US-China relations are likely to remain tense, the trade war is
unlikely to resume. The potential for correction to the downtrend for
Treasury prices looks limited, so the Treasury yields should resume
growth (the indicator is inversely proportional to the price). The
Treasury yield rise will pull up the bond yields around the world. The
ECB can hardly resist the global trends. However, by stepping up asset
purchases, the ECB could clamp down on the sales in the European bond
market, compared to the US and UK. In the week through March 17, the ECB
bought bonds for €21.1 billion, which is 1.5 times more than five days
earlier and above the average weekly pace of €18 billion for the entire
period of the PEPP.

### Dynamics of ECB asset purchases under PEPP



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

### Monthly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Despite the success of the [EURUSD][1] bulls at the trading session on
March 22, I do not see any particular reasons for euphoria. In the best
case, the main currency pair will start a medium-term consolidation in
the range of 1.183-1.204. At worst, it would break out the supports at
1.188 and 1.183 and continue falling towards 1.176 and 1.72. The uptrend
could resume if the price consolidates above 1.2085 and 1.2125. In the
meantime, I recommend using intraday [trading strategies](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/) with moderate
targets.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true