+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-14"
description = "Euro price forecast October 14 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast October 14 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=4.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-14

2020-10-14

Dollar is getting high on politics. Forecast as of 14.10.2020Dmitri
Demidenko

Political uncertainty after November 3 will support safe-havens,
including the US dollar. Let us discuss the forex outlook and make up a
[EURUSD][1] trading plan.

##  **Fundamental** **US dollar** **forecast today**

The optimism about the ‘blue wave’ prospects in the US, when democrats
take control of the White House and Congress and boost the US fiscal
stimulus, is gradually being replaced by skepticism. The Republicans may
not lose the majority in the Senate. If so, the disputes about the
financial aid package could continue after November 3. Does it make
sense to buy stocks? The [S&P 500][2] has dropped. The People’s Bank of
China is willing to weaken the yuan. Speculators are existing record
euro longs. Under the above conditions, the [EURUSD][1] fell below the
support 1.178 [earlier indicated][3].

The bets on Joe Biden’s victory are bets against the US dollar. However,
this fact alone is not enough. If Democrats fail to control the
Congress, the Republicans will oppose the new president just like their
opponents did in 2017 when Donald Trump tried to carry out the tax and
the medical reforms. Or like it was in 2020 when the White House offers
a stimulus package, and the House rejects it. After the US election is
over, continuous political uncertainty should support safe-havens,
including the US dollar.

Investors wonder what will be after November 3. I don’t think the bet on
the growing gap between the US and the euro-area economies should stop
working soon. According to San Francisco Fed president Mary C. Daly, the
US economy is strong and should withstand a new storm. At the same time,
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/) confidence in Germany's GDP rebound has fallen to the lowest
level over the past five months. The number of COVID-19 cases in Germany
has reached 6500, the highest value since April’s peak.

### Dynamics of Germany’s economic sentiment



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The expectations are also pressed down by the International Monetary
Fund. The IMF has revised the US GDP forecast for 2020 up to -4.3%, from
the previous gauge of 8%. The forecast for the euro-area economy has
been raised from -10.2% to -8.3%. According to the IMF, the global GDP
will contract this year not by 5.2%, projected in June, but by 4.4%. The
recession has been mitigated by huge stimulus packages provided by the
world’s central banks and governments and the rebound of China’s
economy. According to the IMF, China’s economy has already reached the
level of 2019 and will exceed it by 1.9 at the end of 2020. In 2021, the
Chinese GDP should reach 8.2%.

### GDP forecasts



 _Source_ _: Financial Times_

Investors also doubt that the Fed’s monetary expansion is more
aggressive than that of the ECB. According to Bloomberg's research, the
European Central Bank is buying more assets within the QE than needed to
cover the euro-area budget deficit. So, the ECB monetary expansion seems
to be more aggressive than the Fed’s.

### Budget deficit and QE, % of GDP

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

###  **[EURUSD][1] **trading plan today

So, the bet on the divergence in the economic expansion and monetary
[policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) may not work after the US presidential election. Speculators are
exiting the euro longs, and the [EURUSD][1] is going down towards 1.1715
and 1.1625. Hold down short trades entered at [level 1.178][3].

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/will-euro-catch-a-blue-wave-forecast-as-of-13102020/
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-is-getting-high-on-politics-forecast-as-of-14102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-is-getting-high-on-politics-forecast-as-of-14102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus