+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-14"
description = "What is CFD Trading"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "What is CFD Trading"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-14

2020-10-14

What is CFDs Trading and How They WorkArtem Parshin

However, after the English brokers came up with a CFD, anyone could
trade anything anywhere while having only one trading account with one
of the brokers.

This is because CFDs are not the asset itself, but rather just a deal
for the price difference. With this contract, you only can get the
difference in price from the moment the contract is signed to the moment
it is closed, and you do not own the asset itself.

This makes CFDs much more convenient, cheaper, and simpler than trading
in standard futures or [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/).

The article covers the following subjects:

## What are CFDs (Contracts for Difference)?

Let’s **define CFD**. Here is a CFD definition:

 **CFD is a type of transaction between two parties regarding the value
of a financial instrument in the future, in which both parties undertake
to settle an amount equal to the difference between the opening price
and the closing price of the trading position.**

So **what is a CFD**? Let me try to explain **CFD** meaning in more
detail. CFD is a“contract for difference”, and it is a contract or
transaction between a seller and a buyer with the aim of making a profit
from the future difference between the closing and opening prices.

If the closing price is higher than the opening price, the seller pays
the difference to the buyer, and if the closing price is lower than the
opening price, the buyer pays the difference to the seller.

And of course, since a **CFD contract** is a derivative financial
instrument, in addition to the difference itself, it also regulates the
time during which this difference is determined.

Initially, the main task of the contract for difference was to make
stock trading available. And since stock CFDs are the most popular ones,
we will look at what is a CFD in trading as an example.

Let's say you want to buy 100 Boeing Company stock contracts. The cost
of one stock is $160. In order to buy the stocks themselves, you will
need $16,000.

But when buying stock CFDs, you do not need to have the entire amount on
your trading account, you only need the margin. The LiteForex broker has
a 2% margin on stocks.

So to buy 100 lots of #BA (Boeing Company) stock CFDs, you need only 2%
of 16,000, which is only $320 + a small commission, which we will not
take into account yet. Several days passed, and the stock price rose to
$170 per stock. The price has increased, which means the seller must pay
us the difference, which will be equal to 170 - 160 = 10 dollars. Now we
multiply 10 by the number of contracts (100) and get 1,000 dollars.

That's it. Hope from now you could clearly understand what does CFD
mean.

Now let's see what we would get by purchasing the stocks themselves, and
not a contract for difference.

Imagine we bought 100 stocks for $16,000, the price rose to 170 and the
value of our stocks increased to 17,000. 17,000 - 16,000 = 1,000. So we
got the same 1,000 profit, but in the case of stocks, we would need
$16,000 on the account.

In the case of CFD products, we only needed $320. And if there’s no
difference - why pay more? This is basically the main advantage of CFDs
over trading the underlying asset itself.

To summarize, it becomes clear that with contracts for difference, we
can make transactions that were previously unavailable to us on any
exchange. We do not need to have a lot in our trading account to make
huge profits.

In my example, we got 1,000 dollars of profit by investing only 320
dollars, and this is more than 300% of the return on investment, which
is almost impossible when working with the asset itself.

### What is CFD Trading

In order to understand what is the CFD market stands for, why it is so
popular in the world and **[how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) trade CFD** , let's take a look at its
[history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/).

The first contracts appeared in the mid-90s of the last century in
London. In those days, the Forex market was still very young and was a
currency exchange in the most direct sense: only currencies were traded
on it.

The main trading power was concentrated on the Stock Exchange, where
real assets (stocks and bonds) and derivatives were competing for the
clients.

Since the stock market was essentially the main market and there were no
alternatives for traders of that time, the government regulated and
tightened the screws as it pleased. The exchange legislation changed
almost every year, and the main restrictions were associated with the
use of the [leverage][1].

Of course, now we are all accustomed to using leverage and change it as
we please, from 1:1 to 1:1000. Back then even 1:5 leverage was available
only to a narrow circle of financial tycoons.

The second major tax was Stamp Duty. This tax charged large commissions
on the purchase of real estate, land, as well as stocks, bonds and other
investment instruments.

These two reasons have become the main driving force for young
financiers in their search for solutions to avoid these restrictions.

And so the young derivatives company Smith New Court found a solution.
“Why buy shares, register them, pay large commissions and taxes if we
are not interested in the company itself, but only in changes in the
prices of its stocks?”

And the company decided to offer its clients to trade not the stocks
themselves, but to buy and sell a contract for the difference in the
price of this stock. And since the issuer of these contracts was the
brokerage company itself, it had the right to sell them with any
leverage its client wanted.

At first, only hunters for short-term deals were interested in the new
instruments, but later large [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s also seriously considered CFD
stock trading. It allowed them to avoid paying a large tax, since there
was no actual ownership of the underlying asset.

In the late 90s, a boom in tech companies began and contracts for
difference changed significantly. Gerard and Intercommodities became the
first company to offer its clients stocks CFD trading via the Internet
on the special GNI Touch platform. This is how the first prototype of
the modern Forex market appeared.

Over time, online CFD stocks trading began to be offered by other
financial companies and brokers around the world.

In fact, CFD brokers of that time created their own market that was much
more accessible for a simple private trader, and you didn’t have to be a
professional in order to work on it.

The **CFD market** allowed anyone to make money on the price difference
without owning a real asset. It’s also a time saver because you don’t
have to wait until your request for the purchase of a security goes
through all the stages from the broker and the exchange to the clearing
house and the depository.

A CFD is a derivative financial instrument, which means that it is
always based on some underlying asset.

The first CFDs were based on stocks, and now there are contracts for
difference for almost everything that can be sold.

Recently, a CFD deal for the outside temperature was registered in the
United States. Two people registered their bet in this unusual way, and
the loser had to pay the winner the difference in air temperature from
the moment the contract was concluded.

CFD trading has a lot of advantages. They include practically unlimited
leverage, instant transactions, and low margin. And finally, you can
trade short in CFDs, while non-margin stocks cannot be short, you can
only buy.

## How Do CFD Works with Examples

Now let's figure out [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) trade CFDs. It’s best that we use a real
example.

For example, we decided to purchase a [Tesla stock (#TSLA) ][2]CFD. In
my opinion, now is a rather convenient moment to purchase contracts for
stocks of this particular company. They recently had a significant
decline, and according to one of the main strategies, which I will
discuss in more detail below, it is rational to buy now.

Before you buy or sell anything, you need to weigh the pros and cons.
Pros include, of course, the expected profit, and cons are possible
risks and the size of commissions and spread.

Everything is pretty clear with the profit, so let's discuss the risks
in more detail. The fastest way to calculate these parameters is the
trader's calculator. You can use it right here:

The first step is to enter the parameters of your trading account:
account type, account currency and account leverage. I have entered the
parameters of my trading account;

Now let's move on to the settings of our future trade. Select the type
of trading instrument, in this case it is “NASDAQ contract for
difference”;

Next, select the underlying asset. As we have already decided this is
Tesla stock, the ticker is #TSLA;

Next, enter the estimated trade volume, or how many CFDs we want to buy.
Here you need to know how many contracts there are in one lot. For CFDs
on stocks, this is almost always 1 CDF = 1 lot. I decided to buy 100
lots;

Set the type of trade. In our case, this is buy or “long”;

Now we set the price at which we want to buy. Since I intend to buy at
the current market price, it is filled automatically;

And now we set the price we expect to see. I expect possible growth
around $460 per stock;

After entering the parameters, we press “calculate”, and below appear
all the parameters of our future trade;

First, let's pay attention to the price of one point. At our volume, it
will cost us $1;

Next, you can see the margin. This is the amount of money that will be
required in our account to buy 100 contracts. As I said above, we do not
need the entire value of the stocks, but only a 3% part of the total
amount, which is calculated as follows:

Next is the spread that we will pay when opening a trade for our volume.
As you probably know, spread is the difference between the buy price and
the sell price, and it looks like this:

Next comes swap, the overnight commission;

And finally, the calculator gives our estimated profit from the trade
with the entered parameters.

There is yet another type of fee - the commission.

As you already know, most brokers on the CFD market have 2 types of
trading accounts, Classic and ECN. Of course, there are also demo
accounts, but that's a completely different story. In short, the main
difference between these accounts is precisely the types and amounts of
fees, such as spreads, swaps, and commissions.

On Classic accounts, the spread is higher than on ECN accounts as it
consists of two components - the exchange spread and the brokerage
spread.

The market is a free trade zone and everyone wants to make money, both
the exchange and the broker. ECN accounts use the so-called “raw” market
spread without the broker's markup, which is much more attractive for
traders who work on short time intervals.

But since this is not beneficial for the broker, they charge a
commission on these accounts, which is always a fixed amount. This
commission is different for different types of instruments. For example,
for stock CFDs it is 25 cents per lot.

And now a lifehack:

The screenshot above shows how I sold 2 different contracts for
difference, one for Google stock and the other for General Electric.

Notice how different the stock prices of these companies are. But the
most remarkable thing is that the commission in both cases is 25 cents.
However, for Google stock, this commission is only 0.017% of the stock
price, which is very very low. But for General Electric, this commission
is 4.09%.

So we see that it is much more profitable to trade more expensive stocks
under such conditions. In fairness, it should be noted that ECN accounts
were created mainly for CFDs.

Before opening the trade, let's recall how the profit is generated when
working with contracts for difference.

In CFD trading we profit from the difference between the opening price
and the closing price of a position.

First, let's look at what happens when you buy a CFD.



The screenshot above shows a trade to buy a NASDAQ CFD.

Since the price of the underlying asset and the price of the contract
for difference are the same, the profit and loss will be calculated in
the usual way. Anything above the buy price will make a profit, and
anything below it will make a loss. You can close a CFD at any time.

When you open a short position, it’s basically the same, only now you
profit when the price of the underlying asset is below the price at
which the trade was opened.

Another important issue is the duration of CFD trade, and here I would
compare it with its closest neighbor derivatives - futures and [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/).

As you probably know, one of the main parameters affecting profit when
working with derivatives is the duration of the trade.

In the picture above, I compared a CFD with a futures contract and an
option over a one-year interval.

As you can see, you will need to conclude both futures and [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) every
quarter in order not to lose in value. You can buy futures for a year,
but the buy price will be much higher than the current market price.

It’s the same with the option. But contracts for difference is an
indefinite instrument, since the underlying asset has no maturity. You
can keep your trade open for as long as you like.

Let’s now look at the trade.

For clarity, I made the trade on two different ECN and Classic accounts
at the same time in order to help you understand the tangible difference
between the trading conditions.

Trading conditions can be viewed in the “information about instrument”
tab.

  1. The first and most important difference is the spread or difference between the buy and sell prices. ECN accounts use raw market spread without a broker's markup, and this is clearly seen in the screenshot above: the spread on an ECN account is 75 points, while on a Classic it is 94 points.
  2. The second difference is the amount of leverage built into the instrument, which we will talk about later. On an ECN account, the leverage is 1:50, and on a Classic account it is 1:33.
  3. The third difference is the margin percentage, which determines the required margin for trading a CFD. On ECN accounts, it’s 2% of the total value of the underlying asset, and on Classic accounts, the margin is 3%, which requires a larger amount on the trading account.

Now let’s trade.

I will open the trades on two different accounts.

  1. First we choose the type of trade: we have already decided to buy.
  2. The next step is to set the required volume in lots. 1 lot is equal to one stock for these stocks. We are buying 100 lots. Click “buy”.
  3. After the trade is opened, compare the parameters between the accounts. To do this, click on the status bar of the trade. Here you can see the first difference - margin. As I said above, the margin percentage on the accounts is different, and this difference of 1% cost us more than $400 in margin. On the ECN account it is less and amounts to 845.18 USD, and on the Classic account the margin amount is 1,271.19 USD.
  4. To open the parameters window, you need to click on the three dots to the right of the "close" button. Don’t miss or you’ll close your position by accident.
  5. Another important difference between the accounts is the commission. As I said above, it is 25 cents per stock. We have bought 100 shares (contracts), which means that the commission will be 100 times higher, namely 25.00 USD. There is no commission on the Classic account, and we saved $25, but it's not so simple. If you remember, the Classic account has a larger spread, which usually compensates for this commission.
  6. As a result, our current profit will add up to the difference in quotes and commissions. The profit formula will look like this:

 ****

In other words, I bought 100 contracts of Tesla stock. The price of one
point is $1. If I bought at 400 and closed at 410, my profit would be:
100 * 1 * (410-400) = 1,000 dollars.

After some time, I closed my trades, and the profit on both accounts was
roughly the same.

As I said, the high spread on Classic was compensated by the commission
on ECN, and the only difference was in the margin, which was lower on
ECN

### CFD Markets

As I have said several times, the scope of contracts for difference is
very broad.

At the moment, there are 4 main types of exchanges (stock, commodity,
currency and cryptocurrency). CFDs exist for almost all types of
instruments on these exchanges.

The most popular are still stock CFDs for the most popular companies,
the so-called “blue chips”.

Why? Let’s recall how contracts for difference were created.

First of all, they are for [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s who cannot not buy shares of
foreign companies by virtue of the law.

In second place are contracts for commodities such as oil, gold, coffee,
tea, gas and many others.

The third most popular choice are contracts for stock indices.

Lower in this list are CFDs for currencies and cryptocurrencies.

I have compiled a table of the most popular contracts for difference by
type of exchange.

By the way, my broker LiteForex has all the instruments in this entire
list. It’s one of the first Forex brokers to offer CFD Forex trading
services.

## How to start Trading CFDs

Now let's find out **[how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) trade CFDs.**

The first step is to draw up a strategy. It can be hypothetical or quite
real in the form of step-by-step instructions. For those who are just
taking their first steps in the financial markets, I recommend drawing
up a plan on paper.

Are you ready? Then let's start:

1\. First of all, you need to register an account with one of the Forex
brokers.

Why Forex? Because Forex brokers have the most extensive range of
contracts for difference, which is much wider than that offered by stock
brokers and investment banks.

I worked on my instructions for you in my LiteForex personal account,
which I’ve had for many years.

Why did I choose this broker? Because I’ve been satisfied with it for
many years.

However, I do not recommend starting trading with real money right away.
In order to get started on this market, it would be best to start with
virtual money, i.e. create a demo account.

2\. After you’ve created the demo account, you are in your personal
account. On the left is the main vertical panel, where you select the
first item of the menu “Trade” and click on it.

3\. The trading page will open, and at the bottom of the screen you can
see a gray highlighted horizontal bar in which zeroes (0.00 USD) appear
in four columns. This is the trading terminal panel, where you can find
a record of the funds in your trading account. Now it is empty because
our demo account is empty.

4\. First you need to deposit to your account. To do this, click on the
blue "Deposit" button.

5\. Then a window will appear in the middle of the page, consisting of
two parts. First, we are offered to open a real account. In the second
there are two fields; enter the required deposit amount in the upper
one. 10,000 virtual dollars is enough for a start.

6\. Now press the "Continue" button.

7\. After a few seconds, your balance is not 0.00, but 10,000 USD.

8\. It's time to start testing. To do this, click on the "Trade" tab on
the main panel.

9\. A menu will appear at the top, where all trading instruments are
classified by groups. Since we are going to trade CFDs, we are primarily
interested in stocks, which means that we will select the "Stocks" tab
in the panel.

10\. A list will open with all the stocks for which the broker provides
a contracts for difference. Earlier in the article, we mentioned Tesla
stock CFDs. Since we know them a little better than others, let's
practice on them. Click on the name of the stock or on the logo.

11\. After clicking, a window for trading these stocks will open. In the
center of the screen there will be a stock price chart. If you are
already familiar with the basics of technical analysis, you can apply
it.

12\. After analyzing the price behavior, I decided that I would play
long. So we switch to the "buy" tab on the right in the trade type
field.

13\. In the line below you need to enter the desired buy volume. The
minimum volume is 1 lot or one stock. But since we have 10,000 USD, it
makes no sense to buy one share. I decided to buy 100 stocks, or 100
Tesla CFDs.

14\. After checking all the data, we only need to click “Buy”, and our
request will go to the broker and the trade will be opened.

15\. After just a few minutes, I saw the result of my actions. The
values ​​in the lower field of the terminal began to change and the
price really went up, bringing me a profit of $173. For clarity, profit
is displayed in green and loss in red.

16\. Our balance has also changed in the terminal field. Now it’s not
10,000, but 10,148.

Now a question. Why is my profit $173, while net income on our account
is $148? The answer is simple - commission. The broker took the
commission when the trade was opened, and it is automatically deducted
from the profit. As you remember, it’s 25 cents per contract, or in our
case, 25 dollars, since we have 100 contracts. 173 - 25 = 148.

17\. A profit of $173 is quite enough for a start, so we can close our
trade.

To do this, click on the field where the balance is changing and a tab
will open a little higher with our trade or trades. We find the right
one and there will be a “Close” button on the right. Click it and our
trade is closed.

18\. Profit on a demo account is certainly good, except we don’t have a
tangible result apart from the joy of achievement.

If you seriously decide to learn [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) make money trading CFDs, you
need to start making real money, and you need a live account for this.

First, let's switch our personal account to live trading. To do this,
click on your profile icon in the upper right corner of your personal
account.

19\. A small settings tab will open, where you need to click on the
"Enable Live Trading" button.

20\. After clicking on this button, the status of your personal account
changes to "Live Account". We are doing serious trading now.

21\. First of all, we need to deposit money to the live account. To do
so, select the "Finance" tab in the main panel.

22\. In the window that opens, in the top menu, select the item
"Deposit".

23\. A window will open with deposit [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/), from a bank card to
electronic payment systems. You can choose whichever method is more
convenient for you.

24\. After choosing the deposit method, you need to place a deposit
request.

The first field will be the deposit amount.

Everyone’s situation is different, but I will give you one tip. I have
been working in various financial markets for more than 10 years and
came to the conclusion that the deposit amount only depends on the goals
that you set.

All the goals can be divided into 3 types: trying, playing, and earning.
And "playing" is by no means a joke. After we switched to live trading
mode, the jokes ended. Because our own money is at stake and we don’t
want to just give it away.

If you are in this category, in order to trade CFDs, to understand how
it all works and try to earn your first capital. An amount twice the
price of the chosen stock will be enough.

Why twice the price? So that one or several unsuccessful trades do not
damage your deposit too much. In the case of our Tesla stocks, where one
stock is worth about $400, $1,000 is enough.

  *  **Playing.** This option is suitable for those who are interested in the financial markets but have no desire to get into all the intricacies of trading, learn and calculate. They just want to buy a certain stock for a certain amount of money and earn 100, 200, 300 or even more percent of profit.

Do you think this is unrealistic? It’s not, but such trades are 99%
luck, and that is why this category is called "playing". However, I know
a lot of examples of quite successful playing.

For example, let's go back 2 weeks and sell CFDs for the familiar Tesla
company, which then cost $ 2,200 per stock. A little over 100 contracts
could be sold for $1,000, and in just one day they brought $180,000.

This is a very real story, only there were few lucky players since the
probability of such a fall was almost zero. So if you are into this kind
of trading, deposit 1,000, 2,000, 3,000 or however much you want, bet
all the money on some unlikely event and wait.

If it happens, you will get rich in one day, but if it doesn't work, at
least you tried.

Someone will be able to work out their own profitable strategy and start
earning steadily with the help of the knowledge gained along the way.

Someone will apply this knowledge and experience to work in a field
related to markets.

Someone will gain invaluable experience and decide to go along the path
of creating a brokerage company.

And someone will choose the path that I have chosen. In addition to
quite successful trading in the market itself, I found myself in
education and financial analysis.

If you want to follow the path of becoming a real trader and learn how
to make money, you need strong start-up capital and some calculation
skills.

My first serious capital was about $4,000. I have already written many
articles where I talk in great detail about start-up capital for
trading. So if you need more information, find my other articles.

Let's continue. Today I have chosen 4,000 as our start-up capital
because the stock costs $400.

25\. After depositing, click on the "Trade" button and see the required
amount appear on your account. It will be displayed in the "Total Funds"
field.

26\. I have 4,852 instead of 4,000 because I already had a balance of
852 dollars from my early activities.

27\. Let's start our serious trading.

Let’s click on the “Stocks” tab and slow down a bit. Since we have real
money, rash actions are not for us. First of all, we need to draw up a
so-called trading plan.

You can find a bunch of articles about trading plans both on the
Internet and [on this blog][3]. But since I mentioned it, I will draw up
a short trading plan for you too.

A trading plan is a set of rules that you absolutely must follow in
order to achieve a positive result. And it basically looks like this:

My trading plan, which I use now, has 37 points, and I know all of them
by heart. The process of evaluating a potential asset can take me from a
few seconds to a week.

For someone who sees a trading plan for the first time it will take
about an hour to work through a single point. But without a trading plan
your trades will be random, and we can’t talk about a stable profit. I
will not go into detail on each point of the trading plan, as I am going
to devote a separate article to this. Let's get by with the basic
sections.

In order to make an informed decision to open a position, we at least
need to decide on the working time when the instrument is being traded,
choose the trading instrument, usually after technical or fundamental
analysis, and distribute a part of the capital for the trade.

28\. After you have coordinated your desires with the trading plan, you
can finally start trading. Click on the selected instrument. In our
case, this is again our favorite Tesla.

29\. If we stick to technical analysis, we should pay attention to the
price chart.

There are a huge variety of [trading strategies](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/), but one works almost
flawlessly - the market gap. I will not go into details, because I’ve
described this strategy in detail in one of my articles.

The general idea is that trading has just begun and a price gap has
formed, which is likely to lead to a short-term rise in the stock price
during the next hour or two. Time is running out and you need to act.

30\. Since we are talking about a rise in price, it means that we will
buy. We set the trade type as "buy".

31\. Then we set the volume of the trade. I've already calculated that
100 contracts will cost me about $900 in margin. This is quite
acceptable for my balance of almost 5000, so I will buy 100 contracts.

32\. After setting the parameters, I click “buy”.

33\. And now a side note for those who are not great at financial
analysis and [trading strategies](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/). There is a section "Analytics" for you;
the button is located on the main panel of your personal account.

34\. In the window that opens, click on the "Analytics Feed" and find
the required instrument in the feed.

35\. There’s today’s Tesla review there. When you click on it, you will
see a brief analytical review of one of the company's analysts with
their opinion on this instrument. You can use the author's arguments and
do what they recommend. But for the future I will say that it is always
better to rely on your own opinion.

36\. While we were hanging out in the "Analytics" tab, changes occurred
in the price chart. The price started to rise, as we expected.

37\. And now it's time to take a look at the trading panel to assess the
state of our deposit. During those 10-15 minutes that we studied
analytics, prices rose and at the moment our trade is bringing us a
profit of $560.

38\. I believe that this is more than enough for a 10-minute trade. Our
strategy has worked and we should hurry to close our trade and take the
profit. You already know [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) do this, click on the "Close" button.



39\. After the trade is closed, I suggest enjoying the first profit
properly. In other words, you need to withdraw the profit and feel it in
your hands.

40\. This is a very useful exercise for novice traders, which is great
for building self-confidence. To withdraw profit from a trading account
go to the "Finance" section.

41\. Only now, instead of the “Deposit” tab, click on the “Withdrawal”
tab.

42\. Again, select the withdrawal method.

Your trading account will appear in the field with the balance and
amount available for withdrawal. I have 5,479. If you remember, I
deposited 4,000, plus there were about 900 dollars on the account. In
total, I decided to withdraw the surplus over 5,000. 479 dollars is
quite enough to go and buy myself a gift for diligence and a well-
thought-out strategy.

### CFD Trading Examples

After we have analyzed a trade example, let's summarize and recall the
basic principles when working with a contracts for difference.

The first thing to recall is how a contract for the difference works,
how profit and loss are determined.

After we have made the decision to start trading, we must turn to our
trading plan.

After deciding on a trading instrument and parameters, we make a
decision to buy or sell. The trading result will directly depend on
whether we choose the direction correctly.

Determining the expected result is easy. Above I have already given the
full calculation formula, but there is also a simplified formula. You
just need to multiply the difference between the closing and opening
prices by the price of one point at the volume of your choice.

In the picture above, I decided to move away from stocks and show this
through the example of a Brent oil contract. It is the most popular
commodity CFD on exchanges.

For example, we decided to buy oil contracts. Oil is sold in lots, and
the minimum lot is 0.1. However, since the contract itself is relatively
cheap, you can safely buy a full lot or more.

For our example, I bought 1 lot. The buy price was $40.00, and the price
I subsequently sold it at was $45.00. The selling price is higher than
the buying price, hence I made a profit.

By the way, how many points did the price pass? 500. Why?

Because a point is the minimum price change increment on the stock
exchange. Before becoming 45.00, the price rose from 40.00 to 40.01,
40.02 and so on, changing by 1 point or more.

So the profit is equal to: the price of a point (1 dollar) multiplied by
(sell price (points) minus (buy price (points)), which is 1 *
(4500-4000) = 500. That's it.

If you are unlucky and the price does not go up, but down, your buy
position generates a loss. It will be calculated using the same formula
1 * (3500-4000) = - 500. The loss in this case will be 500 dollars.

We've covered profit and loss, now let's figure out how the margin
works.

At the heart of CFD trading is margin trading, when a trader earns based
on the leverage provided by their broker. We will talk about this in
detail below.

Margin lending makes it possible to work with large sums with only the
minimum required deposit on the account.

Therefore a trader can work with stocks or commodities and make money on
them without having the full amount to buy the underlying assets.

Let's look at how it works using the example of stocks of one of the
most popular companies in the world - [Google][4], or Alphabet Inc.

The cost of one stock at the moment is approximately $1,445. In order to
buy it, we need the entire amount. In fact, even more with the
commission and spread.

But if you decide to buy not the stock itself, but a Google CFD that is
equivalent in size to one stock, you will not need to have the entire
sum of $1,445 in your account thanks to margin percentage.

The margin for this stock is only 2% of the total value, or $28.98. In
other words, you get the same stock, only many times cheaper. tThe
profit on it will be calculated as usual: how many points the price
moves in your direction is how much you get.

## CFD Trading Strategies for Beginners

This is one of the most important sections that will discuss trading
strategy or tactics of market behavior.

A well-defined strategy will help you make money on price movements.

There are many [trading strategies](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/) specifically for contracts for
difference, but I suggest you consider the most basic and accessible
ones.

### Short & Long CFD Trading

Let's start our review with the most common Forex CFD strategy called
“buy low, sell high”. It will look something like this in the chart:

The picture above shows two charts of price movement for 2 different
assets.

The top chart is Facebook stocks, and the bottom chart is stocks of the
most popular online auction eBay.

As you can see, Facebook stocks were declining for a long time and at
some point reached equilibrium when the price stopped actively falling.
This moment is called the balance of supply and demand. Very often the
stock price changes after equilibrium.

In other words, if it has been falling for a long time, it will soon
begin to grow. There is no other option.

After they fell in price, they became cheaper and more attractive for
buyers, since now less money was required to buy them. At the same time,
the longer they fell, the higher the potential for future growth. Hence
the first rule - “buy low”.

Another scenario is as follows: when [eBay][5] stocks are growing for a
long time, sooner or later a moment should come when the major buyers
will reach their targets and take their profits.

When this happens, the money supply with which they spurred growth will
go away, and only the money supply of those who decided to play short
will remain in the asset. And that's when the money supply of sellers
exceeds the mass of buyers, a reversal occurs and the stock begins to
fall. Hence the second rule - “sell high”.

I think there is nothing complicated about this strategy. Everyone knows
it, but this only makes it more effective. It worked 100 years ago and
it works now.

### Leverage in CFD Trading

This is another very important section in trading. Now is the time to
talk about leverage. Leverage on Forex is an interest-free loan provided
by a broker, which allows you to make trades with a volume greater than
your own capital.

Without the leverage that your broker provides you, trading on the
exchange for individuals would be unprofitable both for a trader and a
broker.

Despite the fact that trading on the world's stock exchanges is quite
active, [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price fluctuations are about one percent of the value of
assets. And without leverage, a trader's income would be a few cents
even in the most successful trades.

For example, you want to buy 1 share of [Hewlett-Packard][6], which
costs $18. Even on the best day, the value of the shares can change by
3-4 dollars, and therefore your income will be 3 dollars. How do you
make millions on the exchange? You can only do it with leverage.

Let's look at an examples:

 **Example 1**

First, let's look at leverage for currencies.

Let's say we decided to make money on changes in the rates of currency
pairs. For example, we’ll take the [USDCHF][7] currency pair, which was
at 1.0000 not so long ago.

We’ve decided that the rate of this currency pair will grow, and
therefore we need to buy.

The base contract size for currencies is 100,000 units. In other words,
a 1-lot trade will generate income or loss as if from $100,000. In order
to avoid giant losses in case of failure, it can be reduced to a minimum
size of 0.01 lot, and then the volume of the currency will be 1,000.

We are buying 0.01 lot of the USDCHF currency pair at 1.00000 in the
hope of growth. In this case, each point of price movement will bring
profit or loss, depending on our lot. With a lot of 0.01, each point
will be equal to $0.01.

> There is a simple formula for calculating the point price. You can
find it [here][8].

After a while the price rose and the quote was 1.01000. It increased by
1,000 points. So the profit for our trade will be 1,000 * 0.01 = 10
dollars.

If we use a large volume, for example 0.1, then the profit will increase
10 times and become $100, and so on. The higher the leverage, the higher
the possible profit. But remember that in case of failure, your loss
will also be leveraged and can deplete your deposit just as quickly.

 **Example 2**

Now let's look at how leverage works in the case of contracts for
difference.

Let's analyze how leverage works for [Google][9] stocks. In the case of
CFDs, the minimum volume is very often one stock, in other words 1 lot
is equal to 1 stock.

One stock costs $1,444, and in the case of the Forex market, we do not
need the entire amount on the balance. But more on that later.

When buying 1 lot of stocks, the leverage will be 1:1 and will be
regulated by a simple increase in the number of stocks bought.

If we buy 10 contracts, the leverage will be 1:10. If we will buy 100
contracts, the leverage will be 1:100. It couldn't be easier.

The price of one point for 1 lot will always be equal to the minimum
change in the stock price, i.e. 1 cent or 0.01 dollars.

Let's calculate how much we will make if the stock rises from $1,444 to
$1,450.

If we buy 1 contract, the profit will be equal to the number of points
passed multiplied by the price of a point, or 600 * 0.01 = $6.

Well, of course, if you increase the leverage, you just need to buy more
contracts, for example, 100, then the profit will also increase 100
times and amount to 600 dollars.

### Margin in CFD Trading

Without the margin leverage that a broker provides you, trading on the
exchange would be almost impossible for individuals, and brokers' income
would be almost zero.

So margin is good for everyone involved in the trading process. With the
help of margin, traders can make transactions for which their own funds
would simply not be enough.

For example, you want to buy 10 Google stocks. Not everyone will be able
to afford it, since one stock costs $1,445, and ten - $14,450. With the
help of margin lending, I can buy 100 Google stocks with only about $400
on my CFD trading account.

Let's look at an example:

Above, I already gave you the formula for calculating the margin. Here
it is again:

The key parameter here is the percentage margin, it defines how much of
the total value of the asset you need to have on your account to
complete the trade.

For example, in the case of Google stocks, the margin is only 2% of the
total value. In other words, to buy 1 stock we need only $28.89 instead
of $1,444. Thanks to this, we can afford more than 30 shares with only
$1000 on our account.

### Hedging in CFD Trading

Now I want to tell you about a reliable strategy for CFD trading. This
is a hedging strategy. In the financial world, hedging is a way to
protect capital from various financial risks. In our case, we will use
hedging against the risk of falling stock prices.

The picture above shows how it works.

For example, we decided to buy [Apple][10] stock. The price in the chart
is growing and everything seems to be fine. But suddenly we learn that
the company may have temporary problems that may be associated with a
defective batch of new iPhones. This has not affected the stocks in any
way yet, but it’s highly probable that it will.

There is no point in closing our position, as the problems are temporary
and the price should rise in the long term. In this case, there’s a
trick we can do. We go to a second account and monitor the price chart.

After a while, the stock really begins to decline, and at the moment
when the price reaches our buy level, we open exactly the same position
on the second account (with the same volume), but this time it’s a sell
position.

If the price falls even lower, profit will be generated on the second
account, which will be equal to the loss on the first account.

After waiting for some time, we have a choice. We can close the
profitable position on the second account and wait until the price rises
and returns to profitability on the main account. Or we can wait until
the price returns to the level from where we started.

The choice is yours here, but you just need to understand why you are
doing this overlap. If you want to get additional profit, you have
option 1, but it is risky. If you just wanted to avoid a temporary loss,
you have option 2, which is called breakeven.

## CFD Trading Strategies for Professionals

Now let's talk about CFD-based [trading strategies](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/) for experienced
traders. This does not mean that they are not suitable for [beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/),
they just require certain basic knowledge. They are often a symbiosis of
basic technical analysis strategies and the contract for difference
structure.

Let's start with the most popular ones.

### Rangebound (Range) Trading

The range trading strategy is perhaps the most popular one among Forex
traders.

The basic principle of the strategy is based on working in the price
channel. You monitor the price chart for sideways movement or a corridor
with a slight slope. Then you add one of the channel indicators (CCI or
RSI) and compare the highs and lows in the price channel with the points
where the indicator line exits the overbought and oversold zones.

If the point coincides completely, this is a signal to enter the market.
If the price reached the line in the chart, but the EMA line did not
reach the zone on the indicator, such a signal is insufficiently
reliable and is not taken into account in the strategy.

### Breakouts

The fractal breakout strategy is also quite popular among traders.

It is mostly used on intraday intervals.

As in the previous strategy, it’s based on a breakout of a sideways
movement or a flat. [Bollinger Bands](https://www.algotradesoft.org/custom-indicator/bollinger-bands.html) and Bill Williams fractals are used
as indicators.

You look for the moment in the chart when the price breaks the level of
the nearest fractal and wait for the chart to go beyond the border of
the nearest Bollinger band. Then the signal is considered true. Stop
loss is usually set at the level of the opposite fractal.

### Contrarian Investing

The contrarian investing strategy is more of a fundamental strategy,
since it is based not on the price chart, but on the study of the
opinion of the crowd.

This strategy was first described by George Soros in his book The
Intelligent Investor, where he compared the opinion of the crowd to
controlled chaos.

The principle of the strategy is to find countertrend points. You find
an asset that has a pronounced directional pressure and form a position
against this movement.

In other words, you are making a trade against market opinion.
[Tesla][11] stock can serve as an example. When it was announced last
week that the company would not be included in the [S&P500][12] index,
only the lazy was not selling it. This is precisely the situation for
this strategy. There is a high probability of a reversal and growth in
the near future.

### Trend Following

###

The trend following strategy is quite popular among indicator
strategies. However, in my opinion, it has a number of disadvantages
compared to the channel strategy.

The principle is to open a position in the direction of a newly formed
trend. You find the trend formation point based on the main signal from
the intersection of the fast (21 periods) and slow (55 periods) moving
averages. The signal is then filtered using two oscillators. usually
MACD and RSI. Make sure that the price stays within the corridor on the
RSI, and the price is in the required trend on the MACD.

For example, in the case of a buy position, the fast EMA crosses the
slow one in the chart and at the same moment, the RSI is inside the
channel, and the MACD histogram is in an uptrend - the signal is true,
you can buy. The trade should be closed when the RSI indicator exits the
channel.

### Scalping (aka Spread Trading)

There are a lot of scalping strategies, but I will suggest that you
consider indicator session scalping, which is most suitable for trading
CFDs.

The strategy is based on the comparison of signals from 4 main
indicators. The main signal is from the MACD oscillator, and then we
check this signal using the RSI and two MAs.

The point of the strategy is that the signal matches on all four
indicators.

An example of them matching is in the chart above.

We get a buy signal when: MACD forms the first bar above the 0 level,
RSI crosses the middle 50 level upwards, and the fast linear weighted
moving average with a period of 10 is above the exponential moving
average with a period of 26.

### Swing Trading

###

Swing trading is not a strategy, contrary to what many people think.
Swing Trading is a complex set of rules, methods and market knowledge
that together give you a clear and structured trading plan that takes
into account every detail.

In general, swing trading is considered to be a trading method in which
a trader keeps a position following the trend open for as long as
possible, ignoring corrective movements. With the proper approach, this
takes advantage not of a small piece, but of the entire trend.

Swing positions are often held for more than a month. But there are also
global swing positions.

In the chart above you can see my real trade in [gold][13], which I kept
open for almost a year, adding and removing accompanying short-term
trades along the way without touching the main one.

Generally speaking, I consider swing trading to be the pinnacle of the
trading art, and I am going to write a separate article about this
method soon.

### News Playing

###

News trading is a very popular type of trading.

As a rule, [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) trading is divided into 2 types: trading on periodic
[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) and trading on events. Periodic trading is mainly done using the
economic [calendar](https://www.fintechee.com/web-trader/). But for event trading, you need to be aware of
everything that is happening around the instrument you are interested
in.

For example, I chose events around [Walmart Inc.][14] At the end of
August, it was announced that the company was buying the popular TikTok
service and the stock began to grow actively. This is an example of a
buy deal. However, a month later, [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) appeared in the media that the
Chinese government was likely to block this deal, and the price of Wal-
Mart stock began to fall actively - this is a sell signal.

## CFDs Benefits & Risks

So what is CFD trading anyway? A way to make money or another
unnecessary tool?

An analysis of the pros and cons will help answer this question.

When brokers around the world began to actively trade contracts for
difference ten years ago, of course, I asked myself: “What are CFDs
anyway?”.

As I studied the new type of contracts, I found a number of advantages
in it over other available contracts. However, as time went on, I found
obvious disadvantages as well. Let's look at both.

### CFD Benefits

While working with CFDs, I have discovered four main advantages over
other types of contracts:

You need very little capital to trade. I have talked about this
advantage many times in this article.

The margin is the biggest advantage that makes CFD trading available to
almost anyone. What is a 2% margin compared to a $1,500 stock price? For
some 30 dollars, I get the opportunity to earn 100, 200, 300 and even
more dollars of income per day.

Very low commissions. When it comes to buying stock of a company for the
long term, for a period from several months to a year, I immediately
think about the fees.

These fees include acquisition taxes, commissions for inclusion in the
register of shareholders, possible delivery commissions (in the case of
commodities), leverage, overnight and other charges.

This set makes you think seriously before buying any instrument for your
portfolio. However when I decide to buy a CFD, I don't think about that
at all, because all I pay is a one-time spread, a commission of 25 cents
per lot, and a swap, which is less than one cent.

For example, when buying 1 [Google][9] stock contract for $1,500, you
will pay 80 cents in spread, 25 cents in commission and 1 cent for ten
days of ownership. And that's it! For a $1,500 contract, you only pay $1
in commission. The conclusion is obvious.

Portfolio hedging option. I’ve already talked about hedging above. There
are many derivatives for hedging, such as [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) and futures, but
contracts for difference are much more affordable compared to them.

In fact, contracts for difference are the perfect way to create locks
and synthetic hedging positions. But their main advantage is the ability
to instantly hedge a position in physical stock. I’ve described the
process above.

Convenience. This item summarizes all of the above. Convenience applies
to everything related to contracts for difference. This is the minimum
margin, and unlimited leverage, and practically no commissions. But one
advantage is worth mentioning separately - accessibility.

Forex brokers provide CFD trading on all types of instruments in one
convenient and familiar terminal. You do not need to have accounts on
different types of exchanges, any large broker has access to all types
of the most popular CFDs.

### CFD Risks

As for the disadvantages, I have found only two. Perhaps they are not
even disadvantages, but nevertheless, I recommend that you always pay
attention to the little things, because they affect the result.

No legislative [regulation](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-broker-regulation/).

I think many could say "What kind of laws are we talking about if we
trade on offshore platforms and do not pay taxes?"

This is certainly true, and I am immensely glad that I don’t have to pay
income tax. But I will give you the following statistics.

In recent years, cases of disputes between brokers and their clients
concerning CFD trades have become more frequent. This is because the
broker is usually the market maker of the contracts for difference, and
therefore they set the rules themselves. There is no clearly written
specification of a CFD and this makes it non-standardized. In case of
any dispute, the broker will always be right.

For this very reason, I strongly recommend that trade contracts for
difference with an unverified broker. It is better to choose a broker
with a slightly higher commission, but you can be sure that you will not
be deceived.

Contracts for difference holders are not shareholders.

Again we can say that this is not quite a disadvantage.

This may not be very important for a beginner, but it’s different for an
experienced trader.

The difference between buying a CFD and buying a physical stock is in
[regulation](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-broker-regulation/).

If you purchased a stock and entered it in the register of shareholders,
you will be the owner of it until you sell or transfer it to another
person. No other issues, be it flood, fire, global crisis, COVID-19
pandemic, bankruptcy of your broker or anything else, can affect this
process in any way. The stock will remain yours even if the broker
through which you bought it has not been a broker for 10 years.

Even if the company whose stock you have decides to close or another
company buys it, you will still have the stock and it will have value.

In the case of a contracts for difference, only your broker is
responsible for it. If something happens to the broker, your contracts
will disappear just as they appeared.

So, once again - choose trusted brokers!

## CFD Trading Platforms & Tools

Now it's time to talk about the tools you use when working with CFDs.

 **1\. Trading platforms**

Contracts for Difference are the most common exchange-traded contract,
and therefore do not require any special software. An ordinary trading
terminal offered by your broker is quite enough to work with CFDs.

The most popular platform, of course, is the [MetaTrader 4][15] trading
terminal. In my opinion, there is no better trading terminal. It has
everything you need for trading, a large set of technical analysis
tools, and the ability to download [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) charts.

There is also a new version of this terminal, MT5, but it is not as
popular as 4.

There are several quite convenient online platforms that have recently
begun to appear. Their advantage is convenience, since the platform is
built right into the trader's personal account, and the owner has
instant access to all the opportunities of interacting with the broker.

 **2\. Trading tools**

Tools are all the additional features that your broker provides.

This includes [economic [calendar](https://www.fintechee.com/web-trader/)s][16] and free access to the necessary
[analysis][17]. Only very reliable brokers can provide this service,
since not everyone can afford their own analytical department. There are
additional programs, which include the [trader's calculator][18] that I
have already described. You can also add [[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) feeds][19], which are
necessary for [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) traders.

 **3\. Graphical analysis elements**

Such tools are usually built into the trading platform. But time does
not stand still and new trading indicators or graphic elements are
constantly appearing. You need to download and install them into your
trading terminal.

 **4\. Trading [advisor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/expert-advisor/)s**

These tools are essential to automate your trading. Trading with trading
[robot](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/automated-forex-trading-robot/)s is called algorithmic trading. Their advantage is that they do
most of the work for the trader, from looking for signals to enter the
market, to fully [automated](https://www.fintechee.com/features/automated-forex-trading/) trading without the participation of the
trader.

A successful trader has the entire set of tools in their arsenal.
Leading brokers know this and try to offer their clients this set in one
place and on one platform.

As I have said more than once, I choose [LiteForex][20] \- a broker with
15 years of experience in the financial markets.

I have been working with this broker for over 5 years, after trying many
different brokers before that.

The main advantage of LiteForex is its accessibility.

Everything you need is in one place.

The structure of the [website](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/website-for-forex-trading/) is user-friendly -  you don't have to go
through a bunch of links to get where you want. You get everything you
need in 2 or 3 clicks.

And as a specialist, I am absolutely satisfied with the trading
conditions, commissions, and the server's response to instant price
changes or slippage. Also, the company allows scalping and swing
trading.

## CFD Rules & Tips

Now let me give you some tips for building your own successful trading
strategy. No matter how trite it may sound, any trading strategy is a
set of rules. Let's make the rules:

 **1\. Always follow the rules!**

The first and foremost rule is to always follow the rules of your
trading strategy. Any slip-up or indulgence is guaranteed to lead to a
loss or problems.

 **2\. Use restrictive orders**

When trading CFDs, you will most often deal with stocks, and trading in
stocks is strictly timed. There will be breaks in trading, after which
unexpected price changes may occur. To prevent these changes from
hitting your wallet, you must always remember to limit risks.

 **3\. Don't be afraid to make decisions**

I know from my own experience that you will never create a successful
trading strategy if you are afraid to make a mistake. Without mistakes,
you will never learn. To avoid fatal mistakes, see point 2.

 **4\. Watch your leverage**

Always keep your leverage in the planned range before opening a trade
and don’t do anything you did not plan in advance.

In other words, if you are in a trade, and an event occurs that confirms
your prediction, you should not increase the position size if you have
not planned it in advance.

 **5\. Calculate your trade before you open it**

Before you open a trade, you must clearly know what purpose you are
pursuing and how much you will lose if something goes wrong.

 **6\. Never listen to anyone**

If someone tells you that they earned millions on Bitcoin, this does not
mean that you should drop everything and buy [Bitcoin][21]. Remember,
most rumors are created on purpose, and they will not bring you any
profit. If someone tells you that LiteForex is a good and reliable
broker, do not just blindly trust them – do your own research and make
your own conclusions.

 **7\. Use trading breaks**

You shouldn't be in the market all the time. Take breaks, your body
really needs them. Fatigue leads to mistakes. It is especially helpful
to take breaks after bad trades.

 **8\. Analyze your mistakes**

After you have made a bad trade, determine whether it was your own
mistake or it was a trivial market risk. If there was a market error and
you closed a trade with a loss, but within your own rules, give yourself
some credit, because even in this difficult situation you remained true
to your strategy.

Market mistakes do not happen so often, and if you are always ready for
them, your profit will grow.

## CFD Trading vs. others financial instruments

All that’s left is to compare CFDs with other instruments offered by the
exchanges and brokers.

### CFD vs. Share (Stock) Trading

When comparing stock CFDs and physical stocks, there are several things
that should be mentioned:

 **Pros of CFDs:**

  1. Minimum margin requirements
  2. Unlimited leverage
  3. No commissions and taxes
  4. Ability to open short contracts
  5. Possibility of hedging

 **Pros of physical stocks**

  1. Transactions are strictly regulated by law
  2. Can be a collateral asset in financial disputes
  3. In case of liquidation of the broker, the stocks will remain
  4. The owner is a voting shareholder of the company

### CFD vs. Spread Betting

When comparing CFD trading and spread betting, there are several things
that should be mentioned:

 **Pros of CFDs:**

  1. Minimum margin requirements
  2. Unlimited leverage
  3. No commissions and taxes
  4. Regulated by the law "on dealer activity"
  5. Possibility of hedging

 **Pros of spread betting:**

  1. The client sets the size of the trade
  2. Ability to trade the difference in spread

 **Cons of spread betting**

  1. There is no regulatory framework
  2. Activities equated to bookmaking
  3. Upper threshold for profit

### CFD Vs. Futures

When comparing CFD trading with buying futures contracts, there are
several things that should be mentioned:

 **Pros of contracts for difference:**

  1. Minimum margin requirements
  2. Unlimited leverage
  3. No commissions and taxes
  4. Ability to open short contracts
  5. Possibility of hedging
  6. High liquidity
  7. The contract has no time limit

 **Pros of Futures Contracts:**

  1. Possibility to hedge the underlying asset
  2. Strict [regulation](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-broker-regulation/) by law
  3. Ability to open short contracts
  4. Guaranteed fulfillment of obligations under the contract

### CFD vs. Options

When comparing CFD trading with buying option contracts, there are
several things that should be mentioned:

First I should say, if there were no CFDs, I would have called [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/)
the best financial instrument in [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) without hesitation.

 **Pros of contracts for difference**

  1. Minimum margin requirements
  2. Unlimited leverage
  3. No commissions and taxes
  4. Ability to open short contracts
  5. Possibility of hedging
  6. High liquidity
  7. The contract has no time limit

 **Pros of Option Contracts**

  1. Possibility of very cheap hedging of the underlying asset
  2. Strict [regulation](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-broker-regulation/) by law
  3. Ability to both sell and buy a contract
  4. Guaranteed performance of obligations under the contract
  5. The best built-in loss limitation system among all exchange instruments

 **Cons of Option Contracts**

  1. Low liquidity
  2. Please note! Binary Options trading is an unregulated shadow OTC-market. There’s a high chance of coming across a [fraud](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/cryptocurrency-fraud/)ulent financial service provider.

## Conclusions

Summing up, I would like to say that CFD trading is an ideal option for
[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/) and traders without a significant capital. Traders with a
large amount of funds at their disposal may choose to buy the underlying
asset itself due to insufficient legal [regulation](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-broker-regulation/) and high risks
associated with the use of leverage.

When making a choice in favor of contracts for difference, each trader
must carefully assess all the risks. If you decide to opt for low fees
and low cost, then CFDs provide an excellent alternative to most other
trading methods.

Nevertheless, remember that the only measure of success for any trader
is only the amount of profit, and the instrument of choice is ultimately
irrelevant.

But enough conversations, it's time to get to work. I wish you good
luck. If you have any questions, I am always happy to help!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][22]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][23] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/forex-leverage/
   2. liteforex.com/trading/trading-instruments/cfd-nasdaq/TSLA/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23GOOG
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23EBAY
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23HPQ
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCHF
   8. liteforex.com/support/faq/
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23GOOG
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23AAPL
   11. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23TSLA
   12. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX
   13. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   14. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23WMT
   15. liteforex.com/downloads/mt4/
   16. liteforex.com/trading/[calendar](https://www.fintechee.com/web-trader/)/
   17. liteforex.com/trading/forex-analysis/
   18. liteforex.com/trading/forex-calculator/
   19. liteforex.com/trading/forex-[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/)/
   20. liteforex.com/
   21. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   22. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=cfd-trading&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   23. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=cfd-trading&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus