+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-09"
description = "Forex Open and Closed Positions - What Does it Mean"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forex Open and Closed Positions - What Does it Mean"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-09

2020-12-09

What do open and closed mean in Forex trading?Artem Shashkov

Any Forex transaction implies a period of time. The period begins with
the opening of a position – you either buy a currency pair when the
exchange rate should increase or sell it, expecting the price to fall.
Closing a position is the reverse operation - you sell what was
previously bought or buy out what was previously sold at a new market
price.

The article covers the following subjects:

## How to open forex position: definition & examples

First, I’d like to explain what is the meaning of open position. To make
money on Forex trading, you should sell at a higher price than you have
bought. Therefore, making a profit always implies two transactions; you
both buy and sell.

One of the trades will be the initial decision - when certain market
conditions imply a further change in the price in the right direction.

When the asset price goes below its all-time high, there is a
possibility of its rise in the future.

The second trade will fix your trading result – if the price has changed
according to your forecast or has started moving in the opposite
direction.

If your forecast was correct, you will record a positive result, i.e.,
you will take the profit.

If your forecast was wrong, you will record a negative result, which is
a loss.

> An open position is when you enter a buy or sell trade but haven’t yet
received a financial result. If you buy an asset expecting it to
increase in value, you have an opened buy position. If you sell a
currency pair, expecting it to depreciate, you hold a sell position.

Have you come across such [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) as a ‘buy,’ a ‘long,’ or a ‘long
position’ relative to open position definition? All these concepts mean
a buy trade.

A ‘sell,’ a ‘short,’ or a ‘short position’ means opening a sell
position.

You should understand that all those slang words mean a trading
operation, not the intention to buy or sell an asset in the future under
particular market conditions.

### How to enter a forex trade?

Before you decide to enter a Forex trade, I recommend studying the
mechanics of the market and at least a couple of [trading strategies](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/).
Thus, you will understand the basic conditions favorable to enter a
trade.

The next step is to determine the entry rules.

There are two of them:

Option 1: you enter by market order. You open a position at the best
market price. In [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of psychology, it is more comfortable compared
with the pending orders. After you put a market order, you are 100% in
the market.

However, it is a drawback. If your forecast is wrong, you will have a
loss. You can avoid losing trades by using pending orders.

To enter by market, you should select the parameter ‘now’:

Next, you choose the position direction (buy or sell), and volume

An example of opening a long position by the market:

An example of opening a short position by market:

Entry option 2: Pending order. The trading order is delayed. It is
presumed that favorable market conditions will appear.

To enter a forex trade setting a pending order, you should select the
parameter ‘At the price’:

Pending orders come into two types:

 **Stop orders.** They are set following the expected price direction.
For example, the current EURUSD price is about 1.1850. But someone will
consider the further uptrend to continue only when the price goes higher
than level 1.1900. So, such a trader will set a stop order to buy at
1.1900. It will be a less profitable trade, but the trader will act
according to the trading strategy.

To set a buy stop order, you need to set the price higher than the
current one. Next, you specify the volume and click on the ‘buy’ button.

If you want a sell stop order, you should choose the ‘sell’ parameter.
Next, you set the price you want to sell at, which should be below the
current price. After that, you specify the volume and click on the
‘sell’ button. If the price is at a level of around 1.1850, a sell stop
order is set at a level of 1.1800.

If the price doesn’t go according to the forecast without reaching the
stop order level, the trader won’t open a position and will avoid a
losing trade. But the price can go in the direction opposite to the
forecast after the stop order has worked out.

 **Limit orders.** They are set opposite to the expected price movement.

Let's take the same example with EUR / USD and the current price around
1.1850. The trader assumes that the price will grow but wants to buy
cheaper. In this case, he/she can place a buy limit order at 1.1800. If
the price drops to this value, the trader will buy more profitably. If
the price continues to rise without a pullback to 1.1800, the trader
will not open a position.

 To set a buy limit order, you need the entry parameter ‘at the price’
and set the required price. But the price should be below the market,
unlike the stop buy order.

In the case of the sell limit order, the entry price must be higher than
the current market price. It means the trader expects an upward
correction first and then a price drop. If the price is, for example,
around 1.1850, one can set a sell limit order at 1.1900.

If the forecast doesn’t come true, the order will not be opened, and the
following financial result will be negative. If the order works out, the
profit will be higher than that yielded by the market or a stop order.

 When you open a position by any order type, at first, the financial
result will be negative:

This is due to the difference in prices at which other market
participants are willing to buy or sell an asset.

In our example, a buy position is opened at $15249.75. If I wish to
immediately close the position, I can only sell the asset to the trader
who is willing to buy it right away. The best price at which other Forex
participants want to buy now is 15203.2. It is lower than the price I
have entered a buy trade.

Therefore, if I close the position right now, the yield will be
negative, shown in the ‘Profit’ section.

To enter a trade, you must have enough money to maintain it (margin)
even in day trading. The margin is displayed in the ‘Assets used’
section and depends on the leverage. The higher is the leverage, the
less is the margin.

The bigger the trade volume (contract size), the more money you need to
open a position; it is a market axiom.

In our example, we should have at least 15.25 USD – it is the minimum
amount needed to open a position with the volume chosen (0.01 lot) for
the BTCUSD.

Let us study the example when the currency of the deposit and the
currency of the purchased asset are different.

For example, my account currency is the USD, and I want to buy the
LTCBTC. It means I want to buy Litecoins for Bitcoins.

In this case, the BTCUSD instrument is first bought for dollars on the
account. And after that, Litecoin is bought, selling Bitcoin, which will
be the LTCBTC pair’s purchase.

This is called double conversion, and it is made automatically.

If the account currency is the same as that of the instrument traded,
the double conversion doesn’t occur. For example, if my deposit is in
euros, and I trade the EURUSD pair.

Trader forums are full of information on [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) enter a Forex trade
correctly, but the "correctness" of any method, in my opinion, is
subjective. It all depends on the rules of the trading strategy and the
personal trading style. The entry and wring points and rules will be
different for positions trading and scalping. The strategy to open a
position also depends on a trading asset. The entry rules are different
for currencies, precious metals, stock, and CFD.

Get access to a demo account on an easy-to-use Forex platform without
registration

[ Go to Demo Account ][1]

### Open Positions and Risk

When you start Forex trading, it is more comfortable at first to have
positions open than to close them. The first wishes of a beginner trader
are usually like this:

You shouldn’t rush with either the first or the second, friends. Closed
and open positions finance must be in balance.

If you enter too many trades, sooner or later, there will be no free
funds left on the account, which are necessary to ensure the next
position. Let's go back to the example with BTCUSD; this is what will
happen if four positions are opened simultaneously:

To open positions, you need to use 61.39 USD. The more positions opened
you have, the less free fund available for operations. It means that the
number of positions you can open is limited by the deposit amount. This
way, you won’t be able to open any position sooner or later. And this
position that you won’t open could generate a great profit. It is a
simple method of arithmetic mean.

You should not be impatient in trading, and the key to success is to be
selective.

Let us study the second error – to enter the market with a too big
volume.

Let us assume that I want to buy 0.1 lot of BTCUSD. Look how much money
on the account is used:

Therefore, if the deposit amount is about $170, a short price movement
in an unfavorable direction will make it impossible for me to enter any
new trades, according to the method of arithmetic mean.

Suppose the loss on an open position is close to the difference between
the deposit amount and the amount of collateral. In that case, the
position will be closed by the system automatically. And from that
moment on, I will no longer be able to open new positions on this
instrument or others, as in the position diversification strategy,
because I will not have enough funds to secure them.

So, the second rule of open position and closed position in Forex
trading is risk management. You had better gain the profit gradually. It
means you should enter several trades of small volume with low risk, not
vice versa. The open position diversification also reduces market
exposure; it doesn’t matter if it is a normal trading day or a market
shock. The forex position volume is crucial for scalpers and intraday
traders, as a single price swing in the opposing direction could ruin
the entire deposit.

## How to close position: definition & examples

Let us find out what is a closed position.

A closed position is a situation when the financial result of the opened
position is fixed.

If the asset grows in value after opening a buy position, the closed
position will record a positive financial result, i.e., a profit. If the
asset depreciates after you enter a long position, the position closed
will yield a negative result, i.e., a loss.

With the sell position, the principle is the same. Closing position at a
lower price will fix a profit for a trade. A short position closed at a
higher price will record a negative trading result.

After you close position, the trading result will be displayed in the
‘Trading [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/)’ graph.

## How to close all positions in forex?

You already know what is close position. To close a buy position, you
need to enter a sell trade of the same volume. For example, if you
opened a buy position with a volume of 0.1 lots, then to close it, you
will also need to sell 0.1 lots.

According to a close position meaning, you must accordingly buy the same
amount of the asset to exit a sell order.

If you close a smaller volume than the original trade, you will close a
part of the position.

For example, if you opened a long position and bought 0.1 lot of the
EURUSD, and next, you sell 0.03 lot of the EURUSD, the remaining
position of 0.07 lot will still be open.

If you enter a long position and buy 0.1 lot and then sell 0.13 lot,
your long position will be closed, and at the same time, there will be
opened a short position of 0.03 lot. In this case, the volume of the
transaction closing the position is greater than the volume of the order
that opened the position.

The financial result of trades is always calculated only after the
position is closed.

### How to close position in Forex?

The easiest way to close Forex open positions is exiting by market,
i.e., you manually exit the order by the market price at the present
moment.

Besides, you can set the parameters of [automated](https://www.fintechee.com/features/automated-forex-trading/) closing the position at
a predetermined price.

When the position is closed by a stop loss, it means that the trade is
exited automatically. A stop-loss works out if the price goes in the
opposite direction to the forecast.

A stop loss for a long position is set at a lower price than the entry
point.

A stop loss for a short trade is set at a higher price.

A stop is set at such a price level, which proves that the expected
trading scenario hasn’t worked out.

If the scenario turns in the right direction, some traders prefer to set
the stop loss, going in the price movement course to reduce the trade’s
market exposure.

Such a stop order is called a trailing stop. The most common way to set
the trailing stop is ‘n’ pips from the current price.

For example, after the US monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) statement, you enter a buy
trade on the EURUSD and set a trailing stop ‘30’ pips. Therefore, if the
EURUSD goes up by 30 pips from the entry price, the stop loss will move
to the entry price. If the price grows by 40 pips, the stop loss will be
ten pips higher than the entry price. Differently put, as long as the
price is rising, the stop loss will be at a distance of 30 pips below
the highest price value.

If the price stops growing or starts declining, the trailing stop won’t
be moving down with the price.

The trailing stop tool allows protecting a part of the potential profit.
In case the price trend reverses according to the trader's expectation
of long-term price trend. Using the trailing stop, you can take the
profit if the price trend has been originally going in the expected
direction but turns in the opposite direction before it reaches the
expected profit.

Closing positions by a take profit means that your position is closed at
the target profit level.

For a long position, you set a take profit at a higher price. For a
short position, you set a take profit at a lower price. You put a take
profit order at such a price level that the price should go to after
opening a position.

According to the market situation analysis, professional traders set the
percentage value of the stop loss and the take profit orders even before
the transaction. Experienced traders are not prone to making
questionable judgment based on the imminent price movement.

The stop loss value indicates the amount that the trader is willing to
risk to close the position at a profit. And the value of the take profit
suggests the amount of expected profit in the transaction.

The critical point is that the closing position in Forex is always
planned before. T

I suggest you read more about the stop loss and take profit [here][2].

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=forex-open-and-closed-positions&type=currency
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)/stop-loss-and-take-profit-in-forex/
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=forex-open-and-closed-positions&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=forex-open-and-closed-positions&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus