+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-09"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (9 December 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (9 December 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-09

2020-12-09

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 09.12.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

Oil is now testing the trendline in the long-term timeframe.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil is now testing the trendline on the long-term chart. If the price
breaks out the trendline and consolidates below, we could sell oil in
the correction with the target at 43.78 and the trend key support [41.81
– 41.34].

If there is a Price Action pattern to buy, we shall enter long trades
with the target at Target Zone 3 [49.32 — 48.81].

The short-term oil trend is up. The price is being corrected now and
testing the support at Additional Zone [45.38 – 45.26]. The zone will be
broken out if the price consolidates below at any trading session.

If the price breaks out the AZ, I will recommend selling oil with the
target at Intermediary Zone [44.19 – 43.95].

If the AZ is held up and there is a buy pattern, we shall buy oil with
the target at 46.53.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [45.38 - 45.26].
TakeProfit: 46.53. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

There are good prices to sell gold in the medium-term; the price is in
the zone of [1850 - 1890].  The medium-term gold trend is down. I
suggest entering sell trades with the target at the low of November +
Target Zone 3 [1736.4 — 1727.1].

Let us analyze the short-term timeframe. Gold is trading in the short-
term uptrend with the target at Target Zone [1890.8 – 1879.3].

The price broke out the local high at the European session yesterday,
and so, we should rearrange the support zones.

Additional Zone is now in the price area of [1850.2 – 1847.7], the trend
border moves to the zone of [1825.2 – 1820.2].

Today, we should focus on AZ as it is close to the trendline. I
recommend entering purchases in the margin zone and at the trendline
with the target at yesterday’s high + Target Zone [1890.8 — 1879.3].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1846.8 - 1844.3].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1890.8 - 1879.3]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD traders are accumulating positions. The middle-term trend is
up. The upside target is Target Zone 3 [1.2232 — 1.2212]. Enter
purchases at the trendline drawn in the chart.

The EURUSD short-term trend is up. Traders tested the trend key support
Intermediary Zone [1.2085 – 1.2076] on Monday. The buyers reacted to the
test, and the price has grown. The price is now close to the resistance
level; it is marked with the green sloped line in the chart.

If the market breaks out the resistance level, there will be a signal to
buy with the target at Target Zone 2 [1.2232 – 1.2209].

It is not relevant to sell the euro now. The sell signal will appear
when the price breaks out the key support and the short-term trend turns
down. If so, we shall enter short trades.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.2085 - 1.2076].
TakeProfit: 1.2177, Target Zone 2 [1.2232 - 1.2209]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-09122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-09122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus