+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-20"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (20 January 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (20 January 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=24.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-20

2021-01-20

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 20.01.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Gold price continues to trade in the accumulation zone [1859 - 1816]

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Wait for an oil sell pattern in the medium-term chart. This requires
breaking out the level 52.27 and consolidating below. In this case, a
medium-term correction with the target at the key support of the trend
[49.39 - 48.94] will begin.

Otherwise, the local maximum will be updated, and Target Zone 4 [54.72 -
54.21] will be reached according to the trend.

The short-term timeframe shows the short-term uptrend with the target in
the Target Zone 3 [55.00 - 54.53].

Yesterday the price was trading in correction and testing the resistance
area [53.04 - 52.67]. At the close of the US trading session, the price
didn’t break out the zone.

Today, at the market open, the resistance at 53.04 was broken out. If
the price consolidates above the level, the growth will continue with
the goals outlined above.

If there is a return under the area [53.04 - 52.67], look for an
opportunity to sell oil in the correction again with the target at the
Intermediary Zone [51.66 - 51.43].

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in the zone of [53.04 - 52.67]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [51.66 - 51.43]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [51.66 - 51.43]. TakeProfit: 53.88. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold price continues to trade in the accumulation zone [1859 - 1816].
The medium-term trend is up, according to the margin zones.

For a buy signal to appear, the resistance of 1859 should be broken out.
To form a sell signal, the price should be fixed below the level of
1816.

The gold short-term trend is down. The price was corrected up to the
zone of the trend key resistance [1857 - 1852]. Today look at the
traders' reaction to the level test. If a sell pattern is given, open
short positions with a target at Monday's low.

If the price breaks out the Intermediary Zone and consolidates above,
then the short-term trend will reverse up. In this case, open longs with
the target at the upper Target Zone [1912 - 1902].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Open medium-term buy positions according to the pattern [1859.2 -
1816.9]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [2005.8 - 1994.3]. StopLoss:
according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Let's take a look at the EURUSD medium-term chart to determine the
medium-term trend.

The chart shows that the Target Zone [1.2165 - 1.2146] was broken out
last week. The trend has reversed down. For the next weeks, look for
sales with the target at the Target Zone 2 [1.1981 - 1.1962].

Now the price is correcting. A possible target of the correction is the
trend border [1.2229 - 1.2213]. Enter sales according to the pattern in
this level.

As part of the correction to the short-term downtrend, the euro price
reached the key resistance zone [1.2141 - 1.2133]. At the moment, the
chart shows the breakout of the level. Wait for the opening of the
European trading session and see if the price fixes higher.

If the IZ is broken, then the short-term trend will reverse up. In this
scenario, it will be possible to open purchases according to the
technical analysis pattern and hold them up to the upper Target Zone
[1.2229 - 1.2213].

Selling the euro requires absorption of today's growth and a breakdown
of support at 1.2115.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.2141 - 1.2133].
TakeProfit: 1.2055. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-20012021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-20012021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus