+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-07-16"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (16 July 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (16 July 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-07-16

2021-07-16

Short-term analysis for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 16.07.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

The short-term gold uptrend continues, the target of which is to reach
Target Zone 2 1845 - 1840.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Selling according to the pattern in the Additional Zone 72.45 - 72.32
worked out: today traders have updated yesterday's low. The short-term
downtrend's unfolding continues.

The Target Zone 69.63 - 69.10 serves as the main target of the price
fall. It is reasonable to consider new sales on correction at strong
resistances. Currently, the Additional Zone is located at levels 72.41 -
72.28, and the Intermediary Zone is at levels 73.87 - 73.60. If the
local low of the day is updated, then the zones should be rearranged
following the price.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone 72.41 - 72.28. TakeProfit: 71.00. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone 73.87 - 73.60. TakeProfit: 71.00. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

The short-term gold uptrend continues, the target of which is to reach
Target Zone 2 1845 - 1840. Yesterday, a correction to the Additional
Zone 1822 - 1821 occurred. It was followed by buyers' reaction, i.e. the
price rose up. The local growth target is the update of yesterday's
high.

Today wait for a buy pattern to appear. The best option would be a
“false breakout” of level 1819 and return of the price to the zone.
However, other combinations are also possible.

To enter gold sales players need to break out level 1819 and consolidate
the price below. In this case, the price will go into a deep correction
with the target in the Intermediary Zone 1811 - 1809.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone 1822 - 1821. TakeProfit:
1834. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro corrective pattern is developing with the target in the
Intermediary Zone 1.1868 - 1.1860. Yesterday, the price dropped to the
zone of strong support 1.1806 - 1.1802. Today look for purchases at this
support according to the pattern.

To enter short trades, market participants need to break out the Target
Zone 1.1799 - 1.1781 and consolidate the price below. In this case, the
new target will be the Gold Zone 1.1711 - 1.1702. Look for sales on
corrections at levels - margin zones that will appear after the update
of July 14 low.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone 1.1806 - 1.1802.
TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone 1.1868 - 1.1860. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-16072021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-16072021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus