+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-08"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (8 December 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (8 December 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-08

2020-12-08

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 08.12.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

There are good prices to sell gold in the medium-term, the price is in
the zone of [1850 - 1890].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The medium-term oil trend has slowed down after the breakout of Target
Zone 2 [44.22 – 43.71]. The price is now approaching the strong
technical level, the trendline. I recommend looking for a Price Action
pattern to buy at this level.

If bears breakout the trendline, we could consider sell trades on the
retest. It will be relevant to sell in the correction with a target at
Target Zone [41.81 — 41.34].

The local short-term trend is up. The target is Gold Zone [47.38 -
47.14].

Yesterday, the price was being corrected down and reached the support
Additional Zone [45.38 – 45.26]. If there is a buy pattern, we should
enter long trades.

If the US session closes the price below Additional Zone, starting from
tomorrow, we shall sell the WTI down to Intermediary Zone [44.19 —
43.95].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [45.38 - 45.26].
TakeProfit: 46.53. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

There are good prices to sell gold in the medium-term, the price is in
the zone of [1850 - 1890].  The medium-term gold trend is down. I
suggest entering sell trades with the target at the low of November.

The short-term upward momentum continues in the short-term gold price
chart. The market hasn’t provided good prices to buy gold according to
the false breakout pattern.

Today, we shall mark the new support levels, where it will be relevant
to buy gold with the target at the upper Target Zone [1890.8 – 1879.3].
Strong support zones are Additional Zone [1846.8 - 1844.3] and
Intermediary Zone [1821.8 – 1816.8].

If the correction develops, we shall focus on the first support
Additional Zone.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1846.8 - 1844.3]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1890.8 - 1879.3]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1821.8 - 1816.8]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1890.8 - 1879.3]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD traders are accumulating positions. The middle-term trend is
up. The upside target is Target Zone 3 [1.2232 — 1.2212].

Good prices to buy the euro will be at the test of the trendline drawn
in the H4 chart. Expect a correction and look for a setup to enter long
trades.

The euro is trading in a short-term uptrend. The price broke out Gold
Zone [1.2105 - 1.2093]. The next upside target is Target Zone 2 [1.2232
– 1.2209].

The EURUSD started correction on Monday. The price reached the trend key
support Intermediary Zone [1.2085 - 1.2076]. The zone has not been
broken out yet, so the uptrend continues. The target to take some of the
profits is at the high of last Friday.

Today, I recommend expecting the pattern to buy in the zone. Otherwise,
the price will break out the zone and close below at the US session. In
this case, we shall sell the euro starting from tomorrow.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.2085 - 1.2076].
TakeProfit: 1.2177. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-08122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-08122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus