+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-08"
description = "Yuan price forecast December 8 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Yuan price forecast December 8 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-08

2020-12-08

Yuan needs a reboot. Forecast as of 08.12.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The [USDCNH][1] continues falling amid the Chinese strong GDP and the
PBOC actions. However, if the US-China trade relations do not improve,
the yuan could stop growing. Let us discuss the yuan prospects and make
up a trading plan.

## Fundamental yuan forecast for a year

Just a year ago, no one would believe that international trade and China
would be the major drivers for the global economy. In late 2019, China’s
economy was quite weak because of the US-China trade war. Numerous trade
tariffs hindered both export-import transactions around the world and
global GDP. In 2020, everything has changed. Amid the pandemic and the
associated high demand for personal protective equipment, medical
supplies, computers, and mobile phones, exports rose 21.1% in dollar
[terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) in November from a year earlier, the most since 2011, excluding
the Lunar New Year holidays. China’s trade surplus surged to a record of
$75.4 billion.

The weakness of the US dollar and the trade balance's success
contributed to the growth of China's foreign exchange reserves to $
3.1785 trillion, the highest level since August 2016. The position of
the People's Bank is stronger than ever; the GDP led by exports,
according to the OECD, can exceed its size, which took place in Q4 2019,
up 10% at once. So, it is natural that the yuan is strengthening against
the world's major currencies. The [USDCNH][1] trend looks like a fall
from a sheer cliff, and I am glad to be following this trend. Back in
early[ September][2], I recommended selling the pair when the exchange
rate was around 6.86. Now, bears are close to the target at 6.5 set in
early [October][3]. This is not the limit.

### Dynamics of China’s forex reserves and yuan

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Along with divergence in economic growth, I highlighted the potential
improvement in the US-China trade relations after Joe Biden’s victory as
one of the key drivers of the yuan's strengthening in Autumn. And
although Biden is not yet going to cancel the import duties introduced
by the United States in 2018-2019, and the retiring Donald Trump
continues to target Beijing imposing new sanctions against China’s
officials and delisting Chinese companies from the US exchanges, it is
obvious that the reboot in relations between the two leading powers of
the world is necessary.

First of all, talks mode should be changed. The form of communication,
based on the Twitter of the 45th US president, is hardly reasonable.
There should be other diplomatic channels. Besides, Joe Biden must
understand that import tariffs cannot solve the foreign trade deficit. A
continuous deficit of domestic savings characterizes the US economy;
imports are the solution. On the other hand, in China, domestic savings
are skyrocketing, which contributes to the growth of exports. An
imbalance in foreign trade between the two countries is inevitable, no
matter how hard the White House tries to mitigate it with tariffs.

###  ** **Yearly[USDCNH][1] trading plan****

I believe some tariffs should be canceled or lowered in 2021. If so, the
global trade and GDP will grow, and the global risk appetite will
increase, supporting the [USDCNH][1] downtrend towards the target 6.32
[earlier indicated][4]. It is still relevant to sell the dollar versus
the yuan on the price rise, as the strategy has been profitable in the
second half of 2020.



## Price chart of USDCNH in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCNH&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/usdcnh-forecast-five-reasons-to-buy-yuan/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/yuan-is-the-forex-leader-forecast-08102020/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/yuan-will-repeat-dollars-fate-forecast-as-of-19112020/