+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-18"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, EURUSD for December 21-25 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, EURUSD for December 21-25 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-18

2020-12-18

Medium-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD 18.12.2020Alex Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest trading
signals for traders who trade in medium-term trends.

Gold has reached the key resistance [1890.8 - 1879.3]. The medium-term
downtrend continues.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for next week: USCrude analysis

Oil is trading in the medium-term uptrend. The trend target is Target
Zone 3 [49.62 - 49.11]. If this zone is broken out with consolidation
next week, then Target Zone 4 [54.72 - 54.21] will become a new target.

As for transactions, I recommend considering new purchases from the
trend line marked with pink in the price chart. For purchases, we should
expect the level test and look for a pattern to buy.  We should take a
part of profits at the local highs.

To sell oil in the correction, traders should break out the technical
support level (the trendline) and consolidate the price below. If so, we
could consider selling oil on the retest with the target at the low of
the current week + Target Zone [44.04 - 43.56].

### [USCrude ][1]Trading tips for the upcoming week:

Buy according to the pattern at the trendline marked with pink in the
chart. TakeProfit: the local high in the H4 chart, Target Zone 3 [49.62
- 49.11]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for next week: XAUUSD analysis

Gold has reached the key resistance [1890.8 - 1879.3]. The gold middle-
term downtrend continues. To sell, you need to find a pattern to sell in
the resistance zone and enter a trade. Targets: November low, Target
Zone 3 [1736.4 - 1727.1].

An alternative scenario implies the trend reversal up. To do this,
buyers need to break out Target Zone and consolidate above the level
during two US sessions. In this scenario, we will look for purchases
from strong supports, and the upper Target Zone 2 [2005.8 - 1994.3] will
become a new target.

### [XAUUSD][2] Trading tips for the upcoming week:

Sell according to the pattern in Target Zone [1890.8 - 1879.3].
TakeProfit: 1766.5, Target Zone 3 [1736.4 - 1727.1]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules

* * *

## Euro/dollar price forecast for next week: EURUSD analysis

Euro continues to break through the highs in the medium-term uptrend.
This week, bulls have reached Target Zone 3 [1.2232 - 1.2212] and have
already managed to consolidate the price above the zone at one US
Session.

I recommend considering new purchases on the correction. Enter buy
trades at the trendline according to the pattern. The target to take a
part of the profit is at the breakthrough of the local high.

To sell the euro in the correction, traders need to break out the
trendline and consolidate the price below. In this case, during the
retest of the level, we will look for an entry point with a target at
the low of December 16 + Target Zone [1.2088 - 1.2070].

### [EURUSD][3] Trading tips for the upcoming week:

Buy at the trendline according to the pattern. TakeProfit: the local
high in the H4 chart. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-18122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-18122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus