+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-18"
description = "When the market is too bullish, the downturns can be very fast"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "When the market is too bullish, the downturns can be very fast"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-18

2020-12-18

Everyone is kicking off the dollarDmitri Demidenko

When the market is too bullish, the downturns can be very fast.

## Investors believe the greenback should drop. Will the USD go down?

Christmas and New Year holidays are soon! Good husbands decorate the
Christmas trees, and perfect husbands buy decorations for their wives.
There only must be money. Of course, those who followed my
recommendations and were buying out the euro at $1.075 since early March
have cash. But what about those, carried away by the December euphoria
and confidence in the EURUSD rise to 1.25, as large banks promise? They
seem to have forgotten that more than one hundred billionaires have
become rich on the natural human desire to get rich. Yes, Goldman Sachs
claims that the euro will strengthen versus the US dollar in 2021,
Morgan Stanley suggests the euro should be 10% up, and Citigroup says
the USD should be 20% down. However, none of them has a crystal ball to
the future. What if anything goes wrong?

People can pay a high price for being gullible. No matter how many
business sharks assure you that the [EURUSD][1] will definitely grow,
you need to believe in the best but prepare for the worst. At least you
will avoid that type of financial stability when there was no money, you
don’t have it now and don’t seem to have it in the future.

What are the arguments of dollar sellers? Should the uncertainty ease
after the successful vaccines’ tests and Joe Biden’s victory in the 2020
election? But these events have already happened, the [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) has been
traded, and the market uncertainty is always there. What if the vaccines
won’t be effective or produce unwanted side effects? Why China and Iran
are sure that Biden will be less aggressive than Donald Trump? I don’t
think Biden wants China to outperform the USA during his term of power
or Iran to make a nuclear bomb.

Should one sell the greenback because the Fed is insane and flooded the
markets with cheap liquidity? However, Jerome Powell and his fellow
central bankers have been passive for a few months already. The
Treasury, led by the outgoing Steven Mnuchin, spares no effort to set
the central bank back. First, the Treasury makes the Federal Reserve
return the unused funds left over the emergency lending programs. Next,
Mnuchin tries to pass through the Congress the Treasury’s decision not
to renew several emergency Fed lending programs. So, there could be such
a conversation between the US banks soon:

> \- Federal Reserve, could you lend us some money?

> \- In general, We can. However, We’d rather teach you the basics of
austerity.

Other central banks, including the ECB, are now more aggressive than the
Fed, so why should we give up on the dollar? How could anyone believe in
the suggested twin deficit, the budget deficit, and the current account
deficit? The USD bears were saying the same ahead of the recession. The
greenback didn’t crash then; why should it drop now?

I don’t encourage you to enter the EURUSD shorts urgently. I am also a
euro bull and believe the euro-dollar could rise to 1.25 next year, but
I am not an obsessive buyer of any moving asset….Time will make
everything clear. It’s time we wait and see.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true