+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-09-01"
description = "Euro price forecast 1 September 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 1 September 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-09-01

2021-09-01

Euro bulls are set back. Forecast as of 01.09.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The euro was rising in late August amid Jerome Powell’s comments and
expectations of the surge in the euro-area inflation. Investors were
buying the [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/), and now, they are selling the facts. What’s next? Let
us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a [EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

Can you read between the lines? Professional traders, driving the
markets, can. The [EURUSD][1] bulls were excited about the surge in the
euro-area inflation to 3% in August, hawkish comments of the ECB
officials, and the associated rally of the European bond yields.
However, traders saw a discrepancy in the speech of the Governing
Council member Robert Holzmann. This has triggered the euro sales. As a
result, the “sell the fact” principle has worked out, which I suggested
in the earlier materials.

In August, consumer prices in the euro area jumped to 3%, exceeding the
forecast of all 37 Bloomberg experts and reaching the highest level
since November 2011. In 2011, the ECB raised interest rates, which
provoked serious negative consequences for the region's economy.
Currently, only 4 out of 19 countries in the currency bloc have
inflation below 2%. There were 16 of them in March.

### Dynamics of European inflation



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

As a rule, the rise in consumer prices reflects the strength of the
economic recovery. The fact that inflation in the United States is still
higher than in Europe proves that the US growth is recovering faster.
The US GDP reached its pre-pandemic level in the second quarter, while
the euro-area growth is still 3% lower than it was at the end of 2019.
The Fed's willingness to scale back the $120-billion QE program even
amid the Delta spread suggests that the US central bank is confident in
the strength of the US economic recovery.

The strong report on the euro-area inflation has also supported to the
ECB officials, who argue that they should start discussing a slowdown of
pandemic bond buying at the September meeting to quit the program by
March 2022, as it is expected. I’d like to stress that it is not about
unwinding the monetary stimulus, as in the case of the Federal Reserve,
but a rational allocation of resources so that the ECB will not have to
cut the emergency purchases of assets almost by half at the beginning of
next year. The governors of the central banks of France, the
Netherlands, and Austria, François Villeroy de Galhau, Klaas Knot, and
Robert Holzmann spoke about  the need to make adjustments. The latter
noted that the ECB’s regular asset purchase programme (APP) does not
need same kind of flexibility as the PEPP.

### Dynamics of ECB quantitative easing programmes



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

This means that the regular QE won’t be as flexible as the ECB's
pandemic emergency purchase programme. The ECB is likely to boost the
APP and maintain its ultra-easy monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) for a long time.
Forecasts for low inflation in 2022 and 2023 suggest that the ECB will
not raise interest rates until at least 2024.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

The ECB tone contrasts with the Fed’s willingness to raise the federal
funds rate already next year. The growth gap and divergence in the
monetary policies suggest the [EURUSD][1] downtrend is stable.
Therefore, I recommend selling the pair on the breakouts of the support
levels of 1.179 and 1.177. However, the US jobs report could introduce
some changes to the outlined scenario.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true