+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-27"
description = "Forecast for euro price for 27 October 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for euro price for 27 October 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-27

2020-10-27

Euro: slow start and fast drive. Analysis as of 27.10.2020Dmitri
Demidenko

The US stock indexes usually grow on the eve of elections, so their
decline at the end of October’s last week can be interpreted as market
noise. How will that affect the [EURUSD][1]? Let’s find it out and make
a trading plan.

## Weekly fundamental forecast for euro

There are a few reasons for the [EURUSD][1]’s drop to the bottom of
figure 18: the US stock indexes’ fall amid loss of faith in fiscal
stimuli and record-high growth of new cases in the USA; disappointing
macrostatistics in Germany, and fears that the ECB may expand QE as
early as in October. Investors were expecting the second wave of
COVID-19, but they didn’t know it would come so fast. The record high
growth of new cases in the USA, France, and Russia, the introduction of
new restrictions, and emergency announcements in some European countries
made the [S&P 500][2] fall by 1.9%. The German [DAX][3] went further and
dropped 3.7 %, drawing the euro down too.

The increase in new coronavirus cases in Germany provoked the Ifo’s
Business Climate Index’s fall, the first in six months. It’s a bad
signal about an eventual slump after a 6-month recovery. Growing risks
of a double recession and reflation may urge the ECB to expand QE by
€500 billion already on 29 October, in contrast to the Bloomberg
experts’ bet on December. That will be an unpleasant surprise for
[EURUSD][1] bulls.

### German business climate index



 _Source: Bloomberg._

### ECB bond-buying dynamics

###

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The States look preferable to the eurozone, which lost illusions about
fast recovery. Three months ago, Bloomberg surveyed economists forecast
that the US GDP would grow 18% in Q3. The estimate rose to 31.8% by the
publication date against a backdrop of a large fiscal stimulus as a
faster-than-expected removal of restrictions. If the fiscal stimulus
isn’t extended, the US double recession chance will be as big as in
Europe.

The market doesn’t believe in any extra support before the elections and
has already started to doubt that the issue will be resolved after 3
November as a blue wave is becoming less likely. That results in the
[S&P 500][2]’s fall, which contradicts [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/). Since 1928, the stock
index has closed in the green zone in the week before the presidential
election. If we take a Tuesday to Friday period, the indicator will
increase by up to 91%. Thus, the week's bad start isn’t as bad a signal
for the stock market and the euro.

Not only will Joe Biden’s victory inspire [S&P 500][2] bulls, but it
will also reduce the risk of a trade war resumption, the reason for
which may be China’s slow execution of its obligations under January’s
agreement. According to Bloomberg, China has bought $65.5 billion in US
goods, while the agreement is $170 billion.

### China’s fulfillment of trade obligations

 _Source: Bloomberg._

The Democrats’ victory will weaken the US protectionism and allow the
global trade to breathe deeply. That’s good [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) for the export-oriented
eurozone and its currency.

### Weekly trading plan for [EURUSD][1]

[S&P 500][2]’s fall on 26 October should be interpreted as market noise.
The story is likely to repeat itself, and the stock index will close in
the green zone in the last week before the election.

The strategy for the [EURUSD][1] remains the same. Buy at a breakout of
resistance at 1.1865.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=FDAX&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-slow-start-and-fast-drive-analysis-as-of-27102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-slow-start-and-fast-drive-analysis-as-of-27102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus