+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-27"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (27 October 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (27 October 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-27

2020-10-27

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 27.10.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

On the chart of a large timeframe, the oil price is pulling back from
resistance - Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

On the chart of a large timeframe, the oil price is pulling back from
resistance - Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. A sell pattern was formed
yesterday. Today consider a medium-term short with a target at the key
support level of the trend [37.34 - 36.72].

The chart of a smaller timeframe shows the change of the short-term
trend to a downtrend due to yesterday's American trading session closing
below the Intermediary Zone [39.08 - 38.83]. This suggests that the
target for shorts is now the lower Target Zone with the borders of
[36.53 - 36.02].

Now the price is correcting to yesterday's fall. Possible targets of
correction are Additional Zone [39.48 - 39.35] and Intermediary Zone
[40.88 - 40.63]. Considering shorting according to the pattern in the
area [39.35 - 40.88].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in the area [39.35 - 40.88]. TakeProfit:
Target Zone [36.53 - 36.02]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold is trading in a medium-term downtrend, the goal of which is to
reach Target Zone 2 [1829.4 - 1820.1]. Wait for a pattern to open
shorts. The market has to break through the level [1890 - 1882] and
consolidate below to form a sell pattern.

The short-term trend is still upward. The target for the trend is Target
Zone [1951.0 - 1941.7]. I recommend keeping the existing longs up to the
target in the breakeven area and look for new ones.

Last week and yesterday, players tested Additional Zone [1902.7 -
1899.8] - a strong intraday support. Yesterday a buy pattern, “1-2-3”,
was formed from this support level. Hold long positions or open new ones
at current prices with a stop-loss below the local minimum according to
the pattern rules.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Hold longs opened in the area [1902.7 - 1882.0]. TakeProfit: Target Zone
[1951.0 - 1941.7]. StopLoss: 1894.4.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro being traded in a medium-term uptrend with the target in Target
Zone 2 [1.2032 - 1.2012]. I suggest looking for a buy pattern both in
the broken through Target Zone [1.1832 - 1.1812] and in the new
corrective zone [1.1648 - 1.1625].

The chart of a smaller timeframe shows that the euro is being traded in
a short-term uptrend with the target in the Target Zone [1.1943 -
1.1920].

Yesterday I recommended buying the euro having found the patterns from
the area of favourable prices [1.1822 - 1.1753]. Same for today. Wait
for a pattern.

An alternative scenario for shorts: breakout of the key support level of
the trend and consolidation below during the American trading session.
In this situation, the short-term trend will reverse to a downward one,
and the lower Target Zone will become the target for short trades.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1822 - 1.1817]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1943 - 1.1920]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1764 - 1.1753]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1943 - 1.1920]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-27102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-27102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus