+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-03-31"
description = "Disney Stock Forecast & DIS Price Predictions for 2021, 2022-2025 and Beyond"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Disney Stock Forecast & DIS Price Predictions for 2021, 2022-2025 and Beyond"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-03-31

2021-03-31

Walt Disney Co Stock Forecast: 2021 and BeyondJana Kane

Disney stocks have been a favorite among [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s for decades. After
all, The Walt Disney Company is a steady member of major US indices,
such as the S&P 500 (it’s not included in the Nasdaq 100 index,
however).

Disney [released][1] the first-quarter figures of its broken fiscal year
in February. It shows that the entertainment company was able to deliver
a profit per share of 32 cents, while analysts had foreseen a loss. The
turnover of $16.25 billion was also higher than the consensus
expectation (15.9 billion).

Due to the coronavirus pandemic, cinemas are closed – thus, some people
have converted their living rooms into home theaters so they can keep
bringing their favorite television shows and movies.  To win its fierce
rivalry with Netflix and HBO, Disney has spearheaded Disney + and plans
to invest heavily in content as a weapon of battle.

We have yet to see what 2021 will bring the DIS stock. We can already
look at the [Disney stock price][2] prediction for this year and the
long-term forecast, what the experts say, what the technical analysis
looks like, and, of course, how this stock performed in the past.

The article covers the following subjects:

## A Recent History of the Disney (DIS) Stock Price

At the end of 2019, the Disney share reached a price of slightly above
$150. Since it reached that milestone, Disney's stock has plummeted.

In March 2020, the price fell sharply due to the pandemic. As a result,
the company had to close its amusement parks or limit the number of
visitors. In addition, the company could not release films as cinemas
worldwide were closed. The movies normally represent 30 percent of
Disney's total sales. The company, therefore, saw a very large source of
income disappear. The price fell to a low of $79 in March 2020.

Due to this crisis, Disney has also announced that it will lay off
employees in the first six months of 2021. This concerns 32,000
employees who are being made redundant. According to Disney, this is a
result of the crisis, and it is necessary to keep the company afloat.

The Walt Disney Company was founded in 1923 by the late Walt Disney. The
now almost century-old company with a current net worth of 122.18
billion US dollars is a real giant. Bob Chapek currently heads the
company.

In addition to the well-known films and theme parks, Disney also has
several TV channels in its possession. Some of these channels include
the well-known Disney Channel and ESPN. Furthermore, the company also
has a cruise line and a streaming service.

In 2018, [Disney][2] made one of the largest acquisitions in the
entertainment industry. After lengthy negotiations, a $71 billion offer
was accepted by 21st Century Fox, making the latter a part of Disney.
This acquisition was widely criticized because there were fears that The
Walt Disney Company would gain a monopoly in entertainment.

After a long period of negotiation and studies, the acquisition was
approved in March 2019, and 21st Century Fox is officially a part of
Walt Disney. As a result of the acquisition, the Disney stock expanded
its range of films and series and acquired a majority stake in Hulu, an
American streaming service.

In 2019, it was announced that Disney was going to launch its own
streaming service. In the same year, all Disney content was also removed
from Netflix, the streaming giant. At the end of 2019, there was a test
period of Disney + in various countries, including the Netherlands.
Disney + was officially launched in Belgium in September 2020.

Disney is trying to take its market share from Netflix with Disney +.
The latter has a customer base of 195 million paying subscribers. The
evolution of the streaming service is remarkable, to say the least.
While Disney stock suffered greatly from the pandemic, Disney + made
huge leaps.

In February 2020, Disney had 28 million paying customers, which is not
bad at all for a starting streaming service. Two months later, in April,
it was announced that the streaming service now had 50 million
customers. In June this already rose to 60 million.

In September 2020, when the quarterly figures were released, it was
announced that Disney+ had a customer base of 73.7 million customers:

Date

|

Number of Subscribers

|

Growth compared to the previous period  
  
---|---|---  
  
February 2020

|

28 million

|

N/A  
  
April 2020

|

50 million

|

78,57%  
  
June 2020

|

60 million

|

20%  
  
September 2020

|

73,7 million

|

22,83%  
  
Disney has been criticized by several cinemas for releasing its highly
anticipated movie “Mulan” on its own streaming service, Disney +,
instead of in theaters. The cinemas felt disadvantaged, as this didn’t
allow them to bring a lot of people to the cinema. From Disney’s point
of view, it is very smart: they can reach the people at home this way
with all sales going directly to Disney (and they don’t have to hand
over anything).

Disney was also criticized by customers who subscribed to Disney + for
having to pay a supplement in addition to the monthly subscription fee
to watch “Mulan.” They had to pay an extra $29.99 to have “Mulan”
permanently in their [Libra](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/libra-creator/)ry.

Disney has more than 100 million customers on their streaming platforms
with Disney +, Hulu, and ESPN+. This is still far below Netflix, but
Disney has announced that they will focus enormously on streaming in the
coming years to expand their reach further. Currently, the Disney stock
outlook looks rosy.

## Disney Now: Current Price

Today on {date_var}, the DIS stock is traded at $184.64. You can refer
to this article to see the Disney stock price tomorrow. Below is an
interactive DIS-to-dollar price chart that shows the DIS stock rate for
buying and selling:

## Disney Price Forecast 2021 – Expert Forecasts

Based on analysts’ predictions, [including][3] those of Morgan Stanley,
Goldman Sachs, Credit Suisse, CNN and RBC Capital, who were offering
12-month price targets for NYSE DIS in the last 3 months, the average
Disney price target for 2021 is $207.95 with a high estimate of $230 and
a low estimate of $124.

 _Image Source: Nasdaq_

## Disney stock Technical Analysis

The Walt Disney Company is in a rising trend channel in the medium long
term. This signals increasing optimism among [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s and indicates a
continued rise. The stock is approaching resistance at $200, which may
give a negative reaction. However, a break upwards through $200 will be
a positive signal. The stock is assessed as technically slightly
positive for the medium-long term.

## Walt Disney Stock Forecast 2022

Below is a Disney stock prediction graph for 2022. Please remember that
a long-term Disney stock forecast is very approximate and is subject to
change at any time.

 **Year**

|

 **Mo**

|

 **Min**

|

 **Max**

|

 **Close**

|

 **Mo,%**

|

 **Total%**  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
 **2022**

|

 **Jan**

|

 **189**

|

 **213**

|

 **201**

|

 **4.7%**

|

 **3.1%**  
  
 **2022**

|

 **Feb**

|

 **180**

|

 **202**

|

 **191**

|

 **-5.0%**

|

 **-2.1%**  
  
 **2022**

|

 **Mar**

|

 **189**

|

 **213**

|

 **201**

|

 **5.2%**

|

 **3.1%**  
  
 **2022**

|

 **Apr**

|

 **198**

|

 **224**

|

 **211**

|

 **5.0%**

|

 **8.2%**  
  
 **2022**

|

 **May**

|

 **188**

|

 **212**

|

 **200**

|

 **-5.2%**

|

 **2.6%**  
  
 **2022**

|

 **Jun**

|

 **179**

|

 **201**

|

 **190**

|

 **-5.0%**

|

 **-2.6%**  
  
 **2022**

|

 **Jul**

|

 **171**

|

 **193**

|

 **182**

|

 **-4.2%**

|

 **-6.7%**  
  
 **2022**

|

 **Aug**

|

 **164**

|

 **184**

|

 **174**

|

 **-4.4%**

|

 **-10.8%**  
  
 **2022**

|

 **Sep**

|

 **172**

|

 **194**

|

 **183**

|

 **5.2%**

|

 **-6.2%**  
  
 **2022**

|

 **Oct**

|

 **171**

|

 **193**

|

 **182**

|

 **-0.5%**

|

 **-6.7%**  
  
 **2022**

|

 **Nov**

|

 **163**

|

 **183**

|

 **173**

|

 **-4.9%**

|

 **-11.3%**  
  
 **2022**

|

 **Dec**

|

 **156**

|

 **176**

|

 **166**

|

 **-4.0%**

|

 **-14.9%**  
  
 _Source: Longforecast_

## Disney Stock Price Prediction 2023

Next, we have listed a Disney share forecast table for the first three
months of 2023. Please keep in mind that long-term forecasts are often
unreliable and are created to approximate how the index value and the
Disney stock future will look.

 **Year**

|

 **Mo**

|

 **Min**

|

 **Max**

|

 **Closing Price**

|

 **Mo,%**

|

 **Total%**  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
 **2023**

|

 **Jan**

|

 **160**

|

 **180**

|

 **170**

|

 **2.4%**

|

 **-12.8%**  
  
 **2023**

|

 **Feb**

|

 **168**

|

 **190**

|

 **179**

|

 **5.3%**

|

 **-8.2%**  
  
 **2023**

|

 **Mar**

|

 **163**

|

 **183**

|

 **173**

|

 **-3.4%**

|

 **-11.3%**  
  
 _Source: Longforecast_

## Long Term Disney Stock Forecast 2025-2030

Please remember that such a long-term Disney stock projection is
speculation, cannot be seen as realistic and is subject to change on a
[daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) basis. Below is a DIS share price forecast for the period 2025 –
2030:

 **Year**

|

 **Mid-Year**

|

 **Year-End**

|

 **Tod/End,%**  
  
---|---|---|---  
  
 **2025**

|

 **$564**

|

 **$594**

|

 **+219%**  
  
 **2026**

|

 **$604**

|

 **$616**

|

 **+231%**  
  
 **2027**

|

 **$659**

|

 **$673**

|

 **+262%**  
  
 **2028**

|

 **$687**

|

 **$702**

|

 **+278%**  
  
 **2029**

|

 **$717**

|

 **$733**

|

 **+294%**  
  
 **2030**

|

 **$750**

|

 **$768**

|

 **+313%**  
  
 _Source: Coinpriceforecast_

## How Did the DIS Share Price Change Over Time?

We can’t predict with certainty what the price of one DIS stock will be
in the next 10 years, but we can look back at the price [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/). This
can help us make more reliable predictions. Below is a [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/)
timeline that shows how the price of the DIS stock changed over the past
10 years:

 _Source: Macrotrends.net_

## Factors that Can Affect the Disney Stock Price

Various factors may affect the [DIS stock price][2]. Below are four
important factors that any DIS trader or [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/) should analyze.

### Factor # 1 – Demand for Media

Demand for television and video-on-demand around the world is currently
experiencing cumulative growth, which Disney could benefit from. Indeed,
the recent increase in the use of Internet-related services has resulted
in an increase in demand for online video. Disney has made every effort
to position itself among the leaders in this field.

### Factor # 2 – Growth of Gaming

Another sector that is experiencing interesting growth is gaming,
especially online games. However, Disney, which has anticipated this
phenomenon, has already made numerous investments in the gaming sector.

### Factor # 3 - Piracy

Like most companies operating in the media and video content industry,
Disney is experiencing a significant increase in piracy. In particular,
this piracy will affect revenues from the sale of DVDs or video-on-
demand subscriptions.

### Factor # 4 - Competition

Finally, while The Walt Disney Company manages to maintain its position
among the leaders in its industry, it is also facing increasingly fierce
and aggressive entertainment competition.

## What is the Future Price of Disney Stocks? Are Disney Stocks a Good
Investment?

The Disney share is an established value on the stock exchange, as it is
a company that has entertained both children and adults for almost 100
years. Although the company has had a lot to process this year, it has
nevertheless made great leaps into the future with the rollout of Disney
+.

Disney really wants to focus on Disney + and will expand and develop it
even more. It was already a huge success this year, and we expect that
if they do what they promise, more customers will join in the coming
years.

Although the company had to record a loss in 2020, we must not forget
that they had to do this due to exceptional circumstances and that it is
the first time in 40 years that The Walt Disney Company has a loss. In
addition, they apparently have the confidence of [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s: Disney stock
was quoted at its highest price ever at the end of 2020, and it is
predicted the stock will end 2021 at a value of 192 USD:

 **Year**

|

 **Mo**

|

 **Min**

|

 **Max**

|

 **Close**

|

 **Mo,%**

|

 **Total%**  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
 **2021**

|

 **Apr**

|

 **162**

|

 **182**

|

 **172**

|

 **-5.0%**

|

 **-11.8%**  
  
 **2021**

|

 **May**

|

 **170**

|

 **192**

|

 **181**

|

 **5.2%**

|

 **-7.2%**  
  
 **2021**

|

 **Jun**

|

 **162**

|

 **182**

|

 **172**

|

 **-5.0%**

|

 **-11.8%**  
  
 **2021**

|

 **Jul**

|

 **170**

|

 **192**

|

 **181**

|

 **5.2%**

|

 **-7.2%**  
  
 **2021**

|

 **Aug**

|

 **179**

|

 **201**

|

 **190**

|

 **5.0%**

|

 **-2.6%**  
  
 **2021**

|

 **Sep**

|

 **185**

|

 **209**

|

 **197**

|

 **3.7%**

|

 **1.0%**  
  
 **2021**

|

 **Oct**

|

 **181**

|

 **205**

|

 **193**

|

 **-2.0%**

|

 **-1.0%**  
  
 **2021**

|

 **Nov**

|

 **172**

|

 **194**

|

 **183**

|

 **-5.2%**

|

 **-6.2%**  
  
 **2021**

|

 **Dec**

|

 **180**

|

 **204**

|

 **192**

|

 **4.9%**

|

 **-1.5%**  
  
 _Source: Longforecast_

We believe that, despite the difficult previous year, Disney has secured
itself for the future and that the company has an even better financial
outlook for the coming years. So, it's a good idea to keep an eye on the
Disney share forecast.

Are you interested in DIS shares? Make sure to create a free demo
account on LiteForex! This way, you'll be up to date with our free
[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/)letter, and the user-friendly interface will come in handy if you
decide to start investing or stock trading.

## Disney stock price prediction FAQ

## Price chart of DIS in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. thewaltdisneycompany.com/app/uploads/2021/02/q1-fy21-earnings.pdf
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23DIS
   3. www.tipranks.com/stocks/dis/forecast