+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-03"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 03.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 03.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 3, 2020

August 3, 2020

EUR/USD forecast: Poor management will kill dollarDmitri Demidenko

##  **Fundamental U.S. dollar forecast for today**

### EUR/USD pair is being corrected, but the euro uptrend is strong

You can take all my factories, all my capital, everything I have from
me. But leave me five of my best managers, and before you know it, I’ll
be ahead of everyone else again. One of the richest men of the 19th
century, Andrew Carnegie _,_  was right. Success in business depends on
efficient management. Forex trading is also a business. The strength of
a currency is determined also by efficient management. The euro-area
used to envy the USA that could afford to redistribute financial
resources from strong states to weak ones. Only the pandemic has forced
the EU to abandon the principle “at court everyone is for himself.” It
has immediately influenced the [EUR/USD][1] rates.

In the modern world, a bet on a currency is a bet on the control over
the coronavirus. However, Congress failed to agree on the extension of
the program of weekly unemployment benefits that officially expired on
July 31, leaving more than 25 million people without support. In Europe,
however, the rich North provides aid for the poor South. So, the
management in the euro-area seems to be more effective. Financial
analysts suggest that poor management could kill the US dollar.

In August, the USD index has featured the worst drop over almost two
years. The bear speculative sentiment in the derivatives market is as
strong as in April 2018.

### Dynamics of US dollar speculative positions

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 03.08.2020][2]

 _Source: Wall Street Journal._

As [I suggested earlier][3], weak data on European GDPs triggered the
[EUR/USD][1] correction. However, amid the divergence in the
epidemiological environment, the euro-area economy is likely to recover
sooner than the US growth. Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President
Neel Kashkari has even suggested a fresh lockdown for 4 – 6 weeks.
Allegedly, the US Congress can afford it.

The euro-area GDP in the April-May period fell by 40.3% on an annual
basis, which, compared with the same period of 2019, seems to be a more
dramatic drop than the US GDP drop by 32.9%. However, population support
programs will continue in 2021; the worst-affected regions, including
Italy, performed better than expected. The control over the coronavirus
relieves fear, which is a key factor in the economic recovery trend.

### Dynamics of European GDPs

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 03.08.2020][4]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Of course, there are many problems in the euro area. The European
economy is much dependent on exports and tourism, which makes foreign
demand a very important factor. Under the current conditions, it could
slow down the economic recovery. Besides, the number of coronavirus
cases has increased amid the end of the lockdown in some parts of the
region, including Spain.

The epidemiological situation in the US is difficult, the management is
poor. Besides, the US even now, when all the countries try to unite to
solve a common problem, continues its attacks on China trying to please
the ambitions of the White House. All these factors support the idea of
the strong [EUR/USD][1] uptrend. It makes sense to use the drawdowns to
1.173, 1.168, and 1.162 to enter long-term purchases.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![EUR/USD forecast: Poor management will kill dollar][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/dollar-cftc-03-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=2b1d06e382a01ee20495a2e1dc724a39
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/forecast-for-eurusd-dollar-lost-its-nerves/
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/euro-area-gdp-03-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=059bf2b4f2408e0d6e20649a42a6b422
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-poor-management-will-kill-dollar&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-poor-management-will-kill-dollar&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-03-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=d0fb51a2c14281f0b2b138b8b94175c2