+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-03"
description = "Marshall Gittler’s weekly comment: Happy Holidays!"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Marshall Gittler’s weekly comment: Happy Holidays!"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 3, 2020

August 3, 2020

Marshall Gittler’s weekly comment: Happy Holidays!Marshall Gittler

 **Market Recap: is the Fed making a mistake?**

The Fed raised rates to 2.50% as was widely expected, but surprised the
market (although not me!) by forecasting more rate hikes ahead. True,
they are now forecasting fewer hikes than before: two next year instead
of three, and still one in 2020, meaning three more in total instead of
four. However that was a big surprise to those who had expected them to
signal even fewer or perhaps even a pause for now. The stock market
reaction tells the story: the S&P 500 ws up a bit more than 1% before
the announcement came out, but ended the day -1.54%. A lot of the
market’s fall came during Fed Chair Powell’s press conference, when he
appeared to rule out a change in the Fed’s [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) of gradually reducing
its balance sheet.

![LiteForex: ][1]

The Committee’s forecast for the possible range of the eventual neutral
rate remained the same at 2.5%-3.5%, but their median estimate of that
figure moved down to 2.75% from 3.0%. That means not only is the actual
Fed funds rate now at the bottom of the range of what they think might
be the long-term neutral rate, but also the median estimate for the Fed
funds rate for the next three years is above their estimate of the long-
term neutral rate.

![LiteForex: ][2]

They also modestly downgraded their estimates for 2019 GDP growth and
inflation (both headline and core PCE deflators).

What surprised me about the results was the modest move in the dollar
relative to the large move in stocks and bonds. EUR/USD was virtually
unchanged on the day.

I think reason for this modest move is that the market believes the Fed
is making a [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) mistake and will have to reverse course later on. The
three-month Eurodollar futures show that the market expects no change in
rates next year and a reduction of 19 bps – i.e., the reversal of one
rate hike – in 2020. That would explain why the stock market fell but
the dollar didn’t rise.

![LiteForex: ][3]

Personally I disagree. I think the higher rate expectations for the US
should support USD going forward. I expect that the Committee will
indeed deliver on the tightening – or more accurately, normalization --
that it has foretold, and that it won’t send the US economy into
recession.

 The real Fed funds rate is still near zero anyway; I don’t think an
economy where there are more job offers than unemployed persons needs
such super-stimulus.

![LiteForex: ][4]

Meanwhile, financial conditions are barely changed from when the Fed
started this rate-hiking cycle back in late 2015. Nine rate hikes and no
substantial change in financial conditions suggests that there’s plenty
of room for the Fed to hike rates further without sending the economy
into recession.

![LiteForex: ][5]

That’s why I remain bullish on the dollar.

One thing is for sure, though: past performance is no guarantee of
future performance. If we compare last year’s total return on the major
currencies (X axis) with this year’s return (Y axis), we can see that
almost across the board, the worst performing currencies in 2017 were
the best performers in 2018, and vice-versa. It also amazes me to see
the euro (-4.97%) did almost as badly as the pound (-5.64%) this year
and that the Australian dollar (-7.03%) did worse than both of them.

![LiteForex: ][6]

 **Volatility coming soon**

The last two weeks of the year tend to see approximately normal
volatility. The unusually thin market means that there could be high
volatility, but the reduced [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) flow means that there isn’t too much to
get volatile about. With the ECB and FOMC meetings out of the way, Italy
capitulating to the European Commission, and even Trump apparently
giving in about shutting down the US government (although there’s still
time for him to change his mind!), perhaps we can expect a quiet couple
of weeks. (No guarantees, though.)

Note though that January tends to be the most volatile time of the year
in the FX market. That’s probably because [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s who’ve wound down
their activity ahead of the year-end book closing rush in to take new
positions. Many hedge funds traders for example basically step back from
the markets in early December so as not to jeopardize their bonuses for
the year. Then in January they start up with a vengeance, taking
positions that they hope will net them profits over the year.

![LiteForex: ][7]

About this graph: Currency volatility for each week is ranked from most
volatile (100) to least volatile (0) of the year. We then take the
average for 2008-2017. If volatility were distributed randomly, over
time each week should have an average [ranking](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/crypto-exchange-ranking/) around 50. The graph shows
the divergence from 50. Weeks with positive bars have been more volatile
than average, those with negative bars are less volatile.

 **Schedule of events: not much up for now**

Next week of course will be dominated by the Christmas holiday. Given
that Christmas is on Tuesday, most professionals will probably be out of
the market on Monday. And Wednesday is Boxing Day in the UK, the major
center for FX trading in Europe. That basically leaves Thursday and
Friday to trade.

Japan and China of course don’t take the Christmas holidays off (I
remember being interviewed by CNBC on Christmas Day in Tokyo many years
ago, since I was the only English-speaking economist at work that day)
so we will get some indicators from them during this time. The Tokyo CPI
comes out on Friday morning in Tokyo and later that day, the German CPI
comes out. (The EU CPI usually comes out the day after the German CPI,
but this time it’s delayed until the end of the next week.) Both
headline figures are expected to show a slowing of inflation, in line
with other inflation data that we saw last week from the UK and Canada,
among others.

![LiteForex: ][8]

Falling headline inflation globally is the natural result of falling oil
prices. We’re likely to see further declines in the months ahead as oil
falls further and the impact feeds through to the wider economy. While
most central banks target core inflation, which isn’t immediately
affected by falling oil prices, as the effects permeate the economy, it
should restrain inflation generally. That might make it difficult for
some central banks, particularly the ECB and Canada, to hike rates in
the future and cause those currencies to weaken.

![LiteForex: ][9]

We will also get the advance US trade figures on that day. The trade
deficit is forecast to narrow slightly – that could be encouraging for
the dollar and cause it to strengthen slightly.

![LiteForex: ][10]

The following Monday it’s the day before New Years – why bother coming
into the office for one day? Followed by New Year’s Day, the biggest
holiday of the year in Japan. So it will be Wednesday before the market
really gets under way again. The ADP report will be delayed until
Thursday because of the holiday, but on Friday – the first Friday of the
month – we get the US nonfarm payrolls again, as usual. So far, it’s
expected to be business as usual, although of course more firms may
contribute forecasts closer to the date. Right now, the market is
expecting yet another trend NFP (180k vs the six-month average of 185k)
with the unemployment rate forecast to remain at the decades-low 3.7%.

![LiteForex: ][11]

Average hourly earnings, arguably the more important figure, is expected
to rise by 0.3% mom. Although that would bring the annual rate of
increase down a bit, the acceleration in the month-on-month rate of
growth would probably be taken as positive for the dollar.

![LiteForex: ][12]

![Marshall Gittler’s weekly comment: Happy Holidays!][13]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/5766d7f19c1720a5b1be327bacca815e.png
   2. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/5a8ae31bc4422869ada2145a94ba3077.png
   3. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/b434bd219b928e190fd8e45437a52b98.png
   4. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/d2234b23e24444c64da7402efb96933b.png
   5. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/4c6e74c1ec192c09f4b3d980b8c89380.png
   6. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/53cfc58ffdb618d3e9fd22d359ddcac7.png
   7. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/ae5b3c7c0c3b6da0d2a30a4af6d76068.png
   8. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/522a9b9f9f4bc1a32c3d8d9028abb2ec.png
   9. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/a1c26607e5988465f7d7db4981d9223f.png
   10. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/42a994892de6d16907c346a72882ee21.png
   11. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/838eba05890895d62dadbb0ae82a5e8a.png
   12. media.clawshorns.com/uploads/files/f8b4c95026e0eabd9ee7da877d023f5c.png
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog/marshall/marshall-5.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=d6edc45ec79b7fe65b98e690e3bb23f6