+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-10"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 10.09.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 10.09.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=18.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

September 10, 2020

September 10, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 10.09.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil price is testing the key support of the middle-term uptrend [37.34 –
36.72]. Expect a pattern to open buy positions with the target at the
high of August.

If the zone is broken out downside, and the price consolidates below,
the middle-term oil trend will turn down. If so, we shall sell oil with
a target at the lower Target Zone 2 [31.14 — 30.52].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 10.09.2020][1]

The short-term oil trend is down. The price started a correction up
yesterday and reached Additional Zone [37.73 - 37.58]. AZ is strong
resistance to the upward correction. I recommend entering sell trades in
AZ according to the pattern.

The second zone to open sell positions is the trend key resistance
[39.44 – 39.13]. The price will reach the key resistance if it breaks
out AZ. After the test of Intermediary Zone, I will recommend looking
for a sell pattern.

The sell target is the low of September.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 10.09.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]trading ideas for today:**

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [37.73 - 37.58]. TakeProfit: 36.11. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [39.44 - 39.13]. TakeProfit: 36.11. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold has returned to the triangle’s resistance. It is now trading in the
zone of good sell prices. To sell gold expect a pattern, for example,
bearish engulfing. The sell target will be the low of August 26, the low
of August 12, Target Zone 2 [1829.4 — 1820.1].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 10.09.2020][4]

Let us switch to a shorter timeframe to explore the short-term gold
trend. Although the upward correction is deep, the trend is still down.

Gold price is now approaching the trend key resistance, Intermediary
Zone [1957.7 – 1953.0]. The price should test the zone shortly. I
suggest looking for a sell pattern today. The downside targets will be
the low of September 8 and Target Zone [1899.4 – 1890.1].

It will be relevant to buy gold if the trend turns up. It will occur
when buyers break out IZ and consolidate the price above.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 10.09.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] trading ideas for today:**

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1957.7 - 1953.0].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1899.4 - 1890.1]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The EUR/USD is sliding down to the key support of the middle-term
uptrend [1.1811 - 1.1791]. The buy pattern will occur when the price
breaks out level 1.1865. We shall see if the buyers will succeed.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 10.09.2020][7]

The short-term trend is down. The sell target is Gold Zone [1.1711 –
1.1701]. The price is being corrected now, it is approaching the key
resistance [1.1863 - 1.1853].

Today, we shall see how buyers will test the resistance, and whether
there will be a sell pattern. If there is a sell pattern, we shall sell
the EUR/USD, the take profit will be at yesterday’s low or Gold Zone
[1.1711 – 1.1701].

It will be relevant to buy the euro if the local trend turns up. It will
happen if the price breaks out IZ and consolidates above the zone at the
US session. If so, the upside target will be in the upper Target Zone
[1.1973 — 1.1953].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 10.09.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] trading ideas for today:**

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1863 - 1.1853].
TakeProfit: 1.1755, Gold Zone [1.1711 - 1.1701]. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_100920_1.png?w=30&s=ef915bfd90e4671853af47a874f696d5
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_100920_2.png?w=30&s=91e06df5a48925439711a0d2cdf1e995
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_100920_1.png?w=30&s=c59de9e32ee0cc8eb330ee9689a82968
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_100920_2.png?w=30&s=5b72f599909dedd31e01ccd19251f0d3
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_100920_1.png?w=30&s=82a15f30230021b1f403b0bb855eb631
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_100920_2.png?w=30&s=d4e3904fb680b84b3c4bac1fe9b1d0c1
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-10092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-10092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus