+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-10"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 10.09.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 10.09.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=2.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

September 10, 2020

September 10, 2020

EUR/USD forecast: ECB is on the warpathDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental euro forecast for today

### Christine Lagarde has a plan

Not by power, but by skill. To win battles, most often you need not
strength, but intelligence. The enemy should taste the victory, get into
a trap, and turn from a hunter into a victim. Christine Lagarde is going
to start a war with the [EUR/USD][1] bulls. The euro buyers expect the
ECB president to start verbal interventions or to hint at the QE
expansion, claiming that the ECB can’t weaken the euro. At best, there
could be a short-term correction, which, however, will allow [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s
to buy more euro at a cheaper price. The president of the European
Central Bank needs a cunning plan, and she seems to have one.

There are hardly any doubts that the Governing Council will leave the
interest rate the same, as well as the size of the emergency asset
purchases of € 1.35 trillion. Bloomberg experts say the ECB should boost
the QE by €350 billion by December and extend the program through the
end of 2021. The ECB forecasts and Christine Lagarde’s speech at the
press conference will be of key importance. Bloomberg’s source familiar
with the matter says the previous inflation projections will hardly
change, while the central bank’s GDP forecast will be revised up from
the current -8.7%. It corresponds to the experts’ opinions. However, it
won’t allow the ECB to further loosen the monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). If the
Governing Council sees that the euro-area economy should grow in the
future, it won’t need to lower the interest rates and boost QE.

### The opinion of Bloomberg’s experts about the ECB projections

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 10.09.2020][2]

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Bloomberg's source says the ECB is not going to increase the pace of the
asset purchases, at least now. It may discuss this matter in December if
the GDP recovery slows down. It means that the ECB won’t signal either
the further monetary expansion in September or the QE expansion this
year. SO, it is natural that the euro is again up, trading above $1.18.
I believe it is a part of Lagarde’s plan. The euro bulls should taste
the victory, otherwise, they won’t get into a trap.

According to BNP Paribas, the ECB can’t stop the euro strengthening.
Nomura believes that the ECB verbal interventions can’t break the
[EUR/USD][1] uptrend. Commerzbank warns the ECB could start a currency
war, while Barclays, Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan say that Christine Lagarde
should still mention the euro exchange rate. Just because Mario Draghi
used to do so.

I think the current ECB president should stress the euro-area inflation
problems. If it doesn’t discourage the euro bulls, other tools will be
used. _C_ hristine Lagarde and Philip Lane speak within 24 hours after
the press conference, their speeches should set the bulls back.
Therefore, most large banks expect the euro to weaken versus the US
dollar, suggesting buying it on the fall. I, however, expect the
currency pair to jump up and down. It makes sense to sell the
[EUR/USD][1] at the rise above 1.19.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/forecast-ecb-10-09-20.jpg?w=30&s=8995da863b902ecd7e81e839b016e24c
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-ecb-is-on-the-warpath&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-ecb-is-on-the-warpath&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus