+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-10"
description = "USD/CNH forecast 10.09.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "USD/CNH forecast 10.09.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

September 10, 2020

September 10, 2020

USD/CNH forecast: five reasons to buy yuanDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental yuan forecast for today

### Unless the US-China trade war is resumed, the USD/CNH bears will be
strong

While the ECB is trying to set the euro bulls back, the People's Bank of
China seems to be satisfied with almost a 5% strengthening of the yuan
versus the US dollar. According to DBS Bank and Mizuho Bank, Beijing
benefits from the strong currency. It reduces import prices and supports
consumer spending. What about exports and inflation? These indicators
could yet wait. Lower commodity prices compared to last year smoothen
the negative impact of the [USD/CNH][1] drop on the exporters. The CPI
has been for the fourth consecutive close to the level of 2.5%, which is
quite acceptable for the PBoC.

The main growth drivers for the yuan against the US dollar are the de-
escalation of the US-China trade war and the divergence in the economic
growth and monetary policies. Due the to timely measures taken against
the spread of COVID-19 in the country, China’s GDP can rise by 2.5%-3.5%
this year. The US GDP, however, is likely to drop by 5%-6%. The Chinese
central bank has lowered the interest rates by 40 basis points since
early 2020, the Fed- by 150 basis points. In addition to the US huge QE
size, this fact is likely to weigh on the dollar.

###  **Dynamics of GDP in USA and China**

![LiteForex: USD/CNH forecast 10.09.2020][2]

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The resumption of the US-China trade war could set the [USD/CNH][1]
bears back. Donald Trump accuses China of COVID-19 origin, suggesting
the two economies could decouple. According to Bloomberg, in case of a
new round of the trade war, China’s GDP will drop from 4.5% to 3.5% by
the end of 2030, in the USA, the GDP will drop from 1.6% to 1.4% in the
same period. China depends on the US technology, it will lose more.
However, the economies won’t be necessarily decoupled. First, despite
Trump's threats to impose taxes on US companies that manufacture
products in China, only 4% of them plan to return production to the USA,
according to a survey by the American Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai.
More than 70% of them are not going to do it. Second, Trump hasn’t yet
been reelected.

So, the strong yuan supports Chinese imports and consumer spending.
Also, it supports the global policies for the "de-dollarization" of the
economy. The Chinese banks usually hold safe havens, if their price
going down, the banks will buy the local currency. The [USD/CNH][1]
decline lets China more easily increase the purchases of the US goods
according to the phase -one trade deal with the USA. The strong Chinese
currency also lowers the risk of Donald Trump’s attacks, as the US
president used to accuse China of the FX manipulations.

So, Beijing wants a stronger yuan, Washington – a weaker dollar. The
USD/CNH bears also benefit from the divergence in the economic growth
and the monetary policies of the Fed and the PBoC. Why shouldn’t the
pair continue falling? I think the [USD/CNH][1] can well drop to 6.7.
Investors should monitor the US presidential election. If Joe Biden’s
approval ratings increase, one could safely buy the yuan against the
dollar. Biden is thought to put less pressure on China than Trump did.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USDCNH in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCNH&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/china-usa-10-09-20.jpg?w=30&s=20f383d40055ba888b5dc159e083ff63
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=usdcnh-forecast-five-reasons-to-buy-yuan&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=usdcnh-forecast-five-reasons-to-buy-yuan&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus