+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-19"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (19 October 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (19 October 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-10-19

2021-10-19

Short-term analysis for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 19.10.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Yesterday's trading idea to enter euro purchases in the Additional Zone
1.1581 - 1.1576 yielded profits.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Yesterday, there was a correction of the short-term oil uptrend in the
Additional Zone, as well in the level of 81.13. The zone was held. Today
a short-term uptrend continues with the target at yesterday's high. If
the traders manage to consolidate the price above yesterday's high, then
the next growth target will be the Target Zone 2 85.44 - 84.93.

An alternative sell scenario implies a breakout of the support level of
81.13, then reaching the Intermediary Zone 80.57 - 80.32. Price
consolidation below the IZ will allow traders to reverse the trend down
and reach the lower Target Zone 78.02 - 77.51.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

Hold up purchases / enter purchases in the zone of 81.85 - 81.13.
TakeProfit: 82.95. StopLoss: 81.13.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Yesterday, traders tested the Additional Zone 1770 - 1769. It was held
and the price reached the lower Target Zone 1763 - 1759 again. However,
a new upward impulse started in this lower Target Zone, within which the
Additional Zone 1770 - 1769 was broken out. Today the price has already
reached the Intermediary Zone 1780 - 1779.

If the price consolidates above the Intermediary Zone, the short-term
trend will reverse up. This scenario suggests the upper Target Zone 1801
- 1797 will serve as the target for purchases.

If the IZ is held by sellers and a sell pattern is formed, then enter
short trades with a target at yesterday's low.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone 1780 - 1779.
TakeProfit: 1761. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Yesterday's trading idea to enter purchases in the Additional Zone
1.1581 - 1.1576 yielded profits. The price has updated the October 14
high. Today the Intermediary Zone 1.1621 - 1.1612 has already been
broken out.

If the price manages to consolidate above the Intermediary Zone, then
the next target for purchases will be the Target Zone 1.1718 - 1.1700.
In this case, look for purchases on correction at strong levels-zones.

Strong support levels for today are Additional Zone 1.1613 - 1.1609 and
Intermediary Zone 1.1569 - 1.1560. Wait for a correction to these
levels, look for a pattern, and buy with the first target at today's
high.

Don't consider sales at the moment.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone 1.1613 - 1.1609.
TakeProfit: 1.1655. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-19102021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-19102021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus