+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-19"
description = "US dollar price forecast 19 October 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 19 October 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-10-19

2021-10-19

Dollar is out of breath. Forecast as of 19.10.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Markets are rising due to new drivers. When the drivers become old,
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s take profits and exit trades. [EURUSD][1] bears lack new
drivers, which results in a correction. Let us discuss the Forex outlook
and make up a trading plan.

## Quarterly US dollar fundamental forecast

World central banks usually follow the path of the Fed. When the Fed
slows down, other regulators could get ahead, as well as their local
currencies. The US dollar is weakening and could be outperformed by
other currencies. Since July, the USD index has been rising amid the
expectations of the tapering of the US QE and the conviction in the
federal funds rate hike in 2022. These factors have been already priced
in the dollar quotes, and it is time to consider other currencies.

I suppose traders could have started exiting the dollar longs earlier if
it hadn’t been for the panic because of the [S&P 500][2] correction amid
the risks of the US default and the talks about global stagflation. In
fact, Congress has bought more time, and the deadlock has been overcome
at least until December. Therefore, the US stock indexes have
strengthened, pressing down the greenback as a safe haven. There won’t
be any stagflation, and the central banks competing with the Fed can
well start normalizing monetary policies.

The leaders are the  Reserve Bank of New Zealand, concerned about the
rise in the inflation rate to the highest level for more than a decade,
and the Bank of England. The BoE governor Andrew Bailey claims that the
regulator will have to act to contain inflation. As a result, money
markets expect the bank rate hike at the MPC meeting on November 3,
considering its further rise this year. The pound is strengthening,
supporting other European currencies, including the euro.

Furthermore, the ECB tone is far from being dovish. According to the
governor of the Dutch Central Bank Klaas Knot, interest rates in the
euro area will start to edge up once central banks begin unwinding their
most important stimulus programs in the first half of 2022. He suggests
a high rate in the future would be 3 to 4 percent! Amid the highest
inflation rate in the euro area over the past thirteen years, this could
be a reality.

### Dynamics of euro-area inflation

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Christine Lagarde now sounds far more hawkish than a few weeks ago. She
says the inflation rise is likely to be temporary. That means there is a
small chance that the high level of inflation might remain longer.
Therefore, it could remain high in 2022, laying the foundation for the
QE end.

### Quarterly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Will the trends for the dollar pairs change amid the change in the
viewpoints of the central banks competing with the Fed? I tend to think
about consolidation, at least regarding the EURUSD. We should not
underestimate the impact of the energy crisis on the euro-area GDP, and
there are still many doves in the Governing Council. Under such
conditions, the [EURUSD][1] is getting more likely to enter medium-term
consolidation in the range of 1.155-1.18.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true