+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-23"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (23 December 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (23 December 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-23

2020-12-23

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 23.12.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Euro price continues to correct with a target at the last week's low.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil is trading according to yesterday’s scenario. At the moment the
price is approaching the first correction target, which is the last
week's low. Once the first target is reached, take a look at the
reaction to the level. The correction can continue and reach the trend
key support [44.67 - 44.20].

The short-term trend formally remains up, because there is no price
consolidation below the trend key support [47.05 - 46.81]. However,
yesterday and today the traders exploited a corrective pattern for
selling in Additional Zone [47.56 - 47.50].

If today after the US trading session the price consolidates below the
IZ, the trend will turn down. In this case, from tomorrow enter oil
sales with the target at the lower Target Zone [44.67 - 44.20].

If the price returns to the support level, then focus on finding a buy
pattern. In this case the target for purchases will be the high of
November 18.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [47.05 - 46.81].
TakeProfit: 49.35, Target Zone 2 [50.26 - 49.78]. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold prices retreat from the border of the medium-term downtrend [1890.8
- 1879.3]. Consider selling the precious metal according to the pattern
with the first target at the last week’s low, and then at November low.

The short-term trend remains up as the trend key support [1856.7 -
1851.7] has not been broken out. This fact suggests long trades with a
target at Monday's high. For purchases, you need to identify the pattern
from the zone, and for the pattern to be identified, you first need to
update Monday’s low.

Alternative case scenario: breakout of the Intermediary Zone and
consolidation below at (during?) the US trading session. In this case,
the short-term trend will switch to a downtrend, and we will sell the
metal with the target at the lower Target Zone [1806.7 - 1796.7].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1856.7 - 1851.7].
TakeProfit: 1906.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro continues to correct with the target at the last week’s low. If
yesterday you have opened trades on the trendline retest, then keep them
opened to the level of 1.2122 and lower, down to the Target Zone [1.2088
- 1.2070]. After the TZ test, it is better to close all sales and look
for new purchases according to the pattern.

Let's take a look at the chart of a shorter timeframe. Yesterday the
traders tested the resistance level [1.2231 - 1.2221], from which I
recommended selling according to the pattern. The false breakout pattern
was formed during the European trading session.

Today I expect the pattern to be realized and Euro will fall to the
level of 1.2131. In this zone, it will be possible to close yesterday's
sales.

We will also observe the reaction of major traders to the retest of the
Intermediary Zone [1.2180 - 1.2171] today. If the price doesn’t break
out the zone and a buy pattern is formed in the chart, then you will
have to close short positions and go long with a target at the high of
the previous week.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Keep short positions from the level [1.2231 - 1.2221]. TakeProfit:
1.2131. StopLoss: at breakeven.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-23122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-23122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus