+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-17"
description = "British pound price forecast for December 17 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "British pound price forecast for December 17 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-17

2020-12-17

Pound both dead and alive at the same time! Forecast Forecast as of
17.12.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The UK withdrawal from the EU makes the British economy vulnerable.
However, if London and Brussels sign a deal, everything will turn upside
down. Where will the pound go? Let us discuss the pound future and make
up a [GBPUSD][1] trading plan.

## Fundamental pound forecast for a year

In early December, Forex traders were discussing the binary scenario.
Provided the Brexit deal is signed, the pound will be alive. Otherwise,
if the UK withdraws from the EU without a deal, the pound will be dead.
However, the sterling is like a Schrödinger's cat; it has to be alive
and dead. Following the [GBPUSD][1] crash to 1.314, indicated in the
[previous pound analytics][2], the pair soared and is about to hit an
upside target at 1.367. Where will the British pound go next?

After a dinner meeting of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, everyone was
prepared for a no-deal Brexit. But the talks continue, and Boris Johnson
will recall the UK parliament over Christmas break to legislate for a
deal if one is secured. The European Commission President claims that
the fisheries problem the only issue they haven’t found a way forward
yet. The French president Emmanuel Macron is the only opponent to the
deal, while the German Chancellor Angela Merkel says a deal is better
than no deal.

The headwind for a pound was quickly replaced by a tailwind. The chance
of the interest-rate cut by the BoE has dropped, and the [GBPUSD][1] has
soared to the highest level over the past 2.5 years. Of course, the
major reason is in a weak dollar, weakened by the Fed and Congress.
After all, all safe havens are unwanted now.

### Dynamics of the expected change of the BoE rate

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The uncertainty around Brexit should embarrass the Bank of England,
whose condition also resembles Schrödinger's cat. However, the BoE can
remain passive, keeping the rate around 0.1% and continuing QE of £895
billion. The BoE Governor Andrew Bailey noted last week, while the
central bank still has room to buy more bonds and pump cash into the
financial system, that won’t prevent long lines of trucks if borders are
hardened.

Although the pound is up, the UK economy remains weak. The GDP is
recovering very slowly, following the worst recession over the past 300
years, and the Bank of England expects a double-dip recession in the
fourth quarter. The uncertainty around Brexit makes the UK lose its
positions in the world exports.

### Dynamics of UK GDP

###

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

### Deterioration of UK exports

 _Source_ _: Financial Times_

### [GBPUSD][1] trading plan for a year

What doesn’t kill us makes us stronger. If London and Brussels sign a
deal, the UK will improve its position in international trade. In
addition to successful vaccination, associated with the increase in PMI,
these factors will support the [GBPUSD][1] bulls in 2021. The downside
driver in the first quarter will be the referendum on Scotland’s
independence. However, I see a good chance of the pair’s rise to 1.4,
based on the general situation. In the short run, traders could be
exiting long and press the pound a little down, which will allow us to
buy the sterling at a lower price.





## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/pound-rolls-the-dice-forecast-as-of-09122020/