+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-12-17"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (17 December 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (17 December 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-12-17

2020-12-17

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 17.12.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The EURUSD reached Target Zone 3 [1.2232 – 1.2212]. The market reached
all buy targets in the medium-term uptrend.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil is trading up. The upside target Target Zone 3 [49.62 – 49.11], and
the market should reach it. Each test of the trendline, marked with pink
in the chart, provides an entry point. Plan only buy trades and take
profit at Target Zone 3.

The short-term oil uptrend continues. The price broke out Gold Zone
[47.64 – 47.41] yesterday. The next upside target in the trend is Target
Zone 2 [50.26 – 49.78].

I marked the next support zones for the oil trend in the chart:
technical trendlines and margin zones. The best buy entry will be at the
levels’ intersection. To enter new purchases, I recommend expecting a
correction and looking for a pattern in the support zones with the local
target at the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) high.

The key margin zone to trade today: Additional Zone [47.43 - 47.31] and
Intermediary Zone [46.24 — 46.00].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [47.43 - 47.31]. TakeProfit: 48.58. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [46.24 - 46.00]. TakeProfit: 48.58. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold is trading in the resistance zone [1850 - 1890]. I suggest we look
for a pattern to open medium-term sell positions with the target at the
low of November + Target Zone 3 [1736.4 — 1727.1].

The short-term gold uptrend continues. The price is approaching the
target in Target Zone [1890.8 - 1879.3]. Yesterday, I recommended you to
buy in the zone of [1845.9 – 1830.8]. The price tested the zone, its
upper border is marked by level 1845.9. I recommend holding up purchases
today.

We shall mark new support levels after the price breaks through the high
of December 8.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Hold up purchases entered in the zone of  [1845.9 - 1830.8]. TakeProfit:
Target Zone [1890.8 - 1879.3]. StopLoss: at the breakeven.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The EURUSD reached Target Zone 3 [1.2232 – 1.2212]. The market has
reached all buy targets in the medium-term trend.

The further trend depends on whether bulls will consolidate the price
above TZ3. If they succeed, we shall set the next growth target, TZ 4
[1.2441 — 1.2420].

In the short-term uptrend, the price broke out the resistance zone
[1.2160 – 1.2151] yesterday. Next, the price reached Target Zone 2
[1.2232 – 1.2209], went down to the broken-out zone and the trendline,
and then it ran up again to break through the highs.

The bulls are now trying to break out the upper border of TZ2, level
1.2232. If the price breaks out the zone and consolidates above, the
next upside target will be Gold Zone 2 [1.2337 – 1.2325].

Enter new purchases on the correction to the strong support zones:
Additional Zone and Intermediary Zone.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.2189 - 1.2184]. TakeProfit: 1.2232. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.2143 - 1.2134]. TakeProfit: 1.2232. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-17122020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-17122020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus