+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-06-25"
description = "US dollar price forecast 25 June 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 25 June 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-06-25

2021-06-25

Dollar targets inflation. Forecast as of 25.06.2021Dmitri Demidenko

If the market is not going where it is meant to, it is likely to go in
the opposite direction. Positive reports didn’t help the [EURUSD][1]
bulls. Will the inflation data become a reason to sell? Let us discuss
the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## US dollar fundamental forecast for today

The Fed is not willing to raise interest rates based only on the fear of
coming inflation and will wait for evidence of actual inflation. So, it
is natural that markets are going up and down on the expectations. A
series of positive [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/), it would seem, should have supported the
[EURUSD][2], but fears about the acceleration of the US PCE from 3.1% to
3.4% in May discourage the euro bulls.

After markets calmed down after the turmoil followed the FOMC meeting,
the White House entered the game. After Joe Biden and a group of 10
centrist senators agreed to a roughly $1 trillion infrastructure deal,
the [Nasdaq Composite][3] and [S&P 500][4] have hit new all-time highs.
This situation is usually interpreted as an increase in the global risk
appetite and presses down safe-havens, including the US dollar.

The growth of business confidence in Germany to the highest level in 2.5
years and in France - to the very peak since 2007 became further
evidence of the rapid recovery of the euro-area economy and, in theory,
should have supported the euro. IFO German business expectations
improved again in June, reaching a twenty-year high, the current
business situation has also improved. Isn’t it a reason to buy the
[EURUSD][2]? Moreover, the Bundesbank said it expects a significant
increase in production, and supply problems must be temporary. The
German central bank has raised the forecast for Germany's GDP growth to
3.7% in 2021. The Bank of France says the country’s economy will return
to pre-pandemic output at the start of 2022

### Dynamics of business confidence in Germany and France



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The dovish tone of FOMC officials could have pressed down the US dollar.
Minneapolis Federal Reserve Bank President Neel Kashkari does not see an
increase in the federal funds rate until the end of 2023, and New York
Fed President John Williams claims that the rate hike will depend on the
state of the economy. It is too early to talk about an increase in
borrowing costs, as the United States is still far from full employment.

It would seem that the increased global risk appetite, positive euro-
area economic data, and the Fed’s dovish stance should have encouraged
the [EURUSD][2] bulls to go ahead and cover some losses resulted from
the recent FOMC meeting. Nonetheless, the expectations of further PCE
growth to the highest levels in three decades hold the euro buyers back.
According to Russell Investments survey of fixed income managers
covering the second quarter found about 70% of respondents expect
inflation for the next 12 months to exceed 2%, up from 38% in the
previous quarter. Therefore, Treasury yields could soar in response to
the US strong PCE

### Weekly [EURUSD][2] trading plan

If the [EURUSD][2] bulls fail to consolidate the price above 1.1945, and
the pair goes down below 1.191-1.1915, it could become a reason to sell
the euro. However, if the pair is not consolidated below the above-
mentioned level, one should immediately exit the shorts. It will be
relevant to buy when the euro goes up above $1.1955.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=NQ&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/ru/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true