+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-26"
description = "Intel Stock Forecast & Price Predictions for 2021, 2022-2025 and Beyond"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Intel Stock Forecast & Price Predictions for 2021, 2022-2025 and Beyond"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-05-26

2021-05-26

Intel Stock Forecast: Will the Company Overcome the Chip Shortage?Jana
Kane

This year, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s stopped worrying that stock market growth would be
too slow. After last year's false start, it is now clear that economies
are poised to rebound, with restrictions being gradually lifted
globally. But where do we put the Intel shares as they seek to recover
from the lost output?

[Intel][1] (NASDAQ: INTC)  might be one of the cyclical stocks that seems appealing due to the correlation with consumer spending and strong earnings results. Notably, INTC's earnings have grown by 17.6% per year over the past five years.

For most companies, 2021 is turning out to be "a transitional year",
which was the opinion Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger shared recently. Still,
the sea change hasn't come immediately, and the chip giant still has a
lot to prove. With all the additional resources thrown at Intel's
technological infrastructure, it has the potential to make this work.

The article covers the following subjects:

Let's dive deep into the company to see where it's headed. What is the
future of Intel’s stock? Find out in this Intel stock price forecast.

## A Short Overview of Intel Stocks

What is Intel's company profile? How much does it cost to buy stock in
Intel? What else do I need to know?

Intel designs, manufactures, and sells components and related products
for retail, industrial, and consumer uses worldwide. The company is
known for its central processing units and chipsets, boards and systems,
connectivity products, and memory and storage products.

A summary of [Intel][2] Corporation stock:

  * Market cap: 224 billion

  * Shares outstanding: 4 billion

  * Earnings per share: 4.45

  * Price-to-earnings ratio: 12.44x

  * Annual dividend/yield: $1.39/2.51%

  * Held by institutions: 63.02%

  * Payout ratio: 41.95%

  * Short interest: 1.24%

  * Historical volatility: 38.7%

Intel became a publicly-traded company on October 13, 1971, at an entry
price of 23.50 US dollars per share. Adjusted for 13 subsequent stock
splits, the trading price was 2 cents.

The current Intel share price is 56.95 USD.

Intel files quarterly reports with the SEC, which are in [open
access][3]. We post the earnings releases and quarterly revenue
statements. According to the end-of-year report, in the past year, Intel
generated a record $35.4 billion from operations and $21.1 billion of
free cash flow, having returned $19.8 billion to shareholders.

## Main Driving Factors Behind the INTC Price

We're going to name and describe three factors with the biggest effect
on the Intel share price forecast.

### Competition

Last June, Apple caused a major blow to Intel's reputation. Apple
confirmed that it would transition its Mac laptop and desktop computers
to its own ARM-based processors. Taiwan Semiconductor was chosen as the
sole manufacturer. This triggered a downward trend that started at
$64.34 and didn't stop until hitting $47.73.

The announcement meant that Intel processors were on the way out in
regards to their partnership with Apple. Based on some estimations,
Intel was getting 5.8% of its total revenue from supplying
microprocessors to Apple. Apple's M1 chip reportedly has 3.5-times
faster central processing unit performance as well as better graphics
and power efficiency.

If that wasn't enough, Microsoft was also reported to be designing its
own chips. Those will be ARM-based processors for Azure servers and
Surface PCs.

If Intel wants to survive this, it has to step up its game. With both
Apple and Microsoft stepping on their toes, the stakes are very high.

### Manufacturing Changes

Intel is investing $20 billion into two new semiconductor fabs in
Arizona. If this goes as planned, it should make Intel a major provider
of foundry capacity in the U.S. and Europe with the ability to serve
customers globally.

This should also mitigate the issue of multiple-year slips in
manufacturing. So far, outsourcing to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Company (TSMC) didn't help the company catch up. Analysts say that the
use of the foundry has the potential to recover Intel's manufacturing
leadership.

But it's going to rely solely on internal manufacturing. The breadth in
portfolio dictates the expansion to external foundries for at least some
technologies and products. If Intel uses the opportunity properly and
finds a balance between internal manufacturing and outsourcing, it will
help the company remain one step ahead of customers' needs. In this
event, the stock price will most likely go up.

### Initiatives Outside the Main Line of Business

The third factor affecting the Intel stock forecast has nothing to do
with chips.

Intel has a diversification strategy that gives it exposure to a number
of lucrative markets. In most recent [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/), Intel's corporate venture
capital division invested $132 million in 11 different start-ups.

Future gains in intellectual property and expertise will be in areas
such as chip design, artificial intelligence, and autonomous computing.

In April 2021, Intel and MILA announced a partnership to use AI in
medical research. There aren't any set financial goals or objectives for
such initiatives. Positive feedback from the announcement wasn't
reflected in the stock price, but a potentially life-saving platform
will quickly turn any INTC price prediction bullish.

## Intel Stock Forecast for 2021: Analysts' Ratings

At the time of writing (May 18, 2021), the average 12-month Intel stock
price target from [43 analyst recommendations][4] is $63.24 per share.
13 analysts gave it a Buy rating, 10 analysts — Sell, and 13 analysts —
Hold. Below we're looking at five Intel stock forecasts in more detail.

### Ianjit Bhatti, Atlantic Equities

 ****

[Ianjit Bhatti][5] gave a $45 price objective on Intel stock, a decrease
from the previous target of $63. In a note to clients, the analyst said
Intel doesn't have enough to recover from market share losses.

### Vivek Arya, Bank of America

 ****

Analysts at Bank of America led by[Vivek Arya][6] reiterated their Sell
rating and kept the price target at $62. The analysts said that
increasing competition from Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) might result in
"muted" growth in the near future.

### Needham & Company

 ****

The analysts of[Needham & Company][7] have a more optimistic financial
outlook on the Intel stock future. The current rating is a Buy, with the
price target set to $74.

### Toshiya Hari, Goldman Sachs

[Toshiya Hari][8] at Goldman Sachs previously changed the Neutral rating
to Sell. The stock analysis was recently reiterated with a price target
of $59. Some of the reasons were weakening PC demand, low enterprise
spending, and elevated capital intensity.

### John Pitzer, Credit Suisse Group

 ****

[John Pitzer][9], Credit Suisse analyst, seems to be more excited about
Intel's stock price, set the target of Intel's stock price at $80, which
is the seventh-highest estimate on Wall Street. His rating is a hard
Buy. The analyst called Intel the most undervalued and mispriced in the
computing power industry that sees a strong demand.

## Technical Analysis of INTC Price

With a downtrend lasting for over a month, is Intel going to go back up?
Let's look at the Intel stock projection from the perspective of
technical analysis.

 _Source:[TradingView][10]_

In a steady downward trend, we normally see the stock quote below the
EMA20, the EMA20 below the EMA50, and the EMA50 below the EMA200. Since
EMAs are not in alignment, there's no strong indicator of a continuing
downtrend. During these times, traders tend to stand aside.

As the share price managed to close above the resistance line with a gap
up, we can expect a long-term upward movement.

## Intel Stock Forecast for 2022

The 2022 forecasts gravitate towards a positive outlook, expecting the
price to grow from $56-$57 to $60. Monthly changes for the next year are
expected to be mild, the maximum range being 1.63%.

 **Date**

|

 **Opening price**

|

 **Closing price**

|

 **Minimum price**

|

 **Maximum price**

|

 **Change**  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
January 2022

|

56.836

|

57.779

|

56.836

|

57.779

|

1.63%  
  
February 2022

|

57.886

|

58.214

|

57.864

|

58.332

|

0.56%  
  
March 2022

|

58.289

|

58.634

|

57.885

|

58.634

|

0.59%  
  
April 2022

|

58.682

|

59.461

|

58.682

|

59.741

|

1.31%  
  
May 2022

|

59.304

|

59.526

|

58.890

|

59.526

|

0.37%  
  
June 2022

|

59.531

|

58.804

|

58.769

|

59.679

|

-1.24%  
  
July 2022

|

58.782

|

59.231

|

58.782

|

59.620

|

0.76%  
  
August 2022

|

58.988

|

58.471

|

58.191

|

59.002

|

-0.88%  
  
September 2022

|

58.489

|

59.044

|

58.479

|

59.060

|

0.94%  
  
October 2022

|

59.067

|

59.696

|

59.067

|

59.696

|

1.05%  
  
November 2022

|

59.822

|

60.326

|

59.820

|

60.328

|

0.84%  
  
December 2022

|

60.354

|

60.838

|

60.354

|

60.864

|

0.79%  
  
 _Source: Wallet Investor_

TSMC will be working on a massive order for 3nm chip production in the
second half of 2022. Since TSMC makes the majority of Intel's core
products, Intel itself will have a smaller proportion of revenue, but
this will still be substantial.

Supposedly, this will open up more possibilities for research and
development. This strategy should fully resolve process delays and yield
difficulties. After all, working on and honing in on process advancement
has always been an effective path.

## Intel Stock Forecast for 2023

Picking up the uptrend from 2022, Intel's price might start the year at
the $60 mark and reach $64 by the end of the year. Monthly changes are
somewhat insignificant once again.

 **Date**

|

 **Opening price**

|

 **Closing price**

|

 **Minimum value**

|

 **Maximum value**

|

 **Change**  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
January 2023

|

60.889

|

61.960

|

60.889

|

61.960

|

1.73%  
  
February 2023

|

61.941

|

62.403

|

61.935

|

62.411

|

0.74%  
  
March 2023

|

62.352

|

62.674

|

61.993

|

62.674

|

0.51%  
  
April 2023

|

62.895

|

63.604

|

62.895

|

63.821

|

1.11%  
  
May 2023

|

63.454

|

63.574

|

62.982

|

63.574

|

0.19%  
  
June 2023

|

63.610

|

62.863

|

62.863

|

63.768

|

-1.19%  
  
July 2023

|

62.891

|

63.176

|

62.891

|

63.691

|

0.45%  
  
August 2023

|

63.192

|

62.553

|

62.278

|

63.192

|

-1.02%  
  
September 2023

|

62.544

|

63.115

|

62.544

|

63.129

|

0.91%  
  
October 2023

|

63.142

|

63.872

|

63.142

|

63.872

|

1.14%  
  
November 2023

|

63.872

|

64.406

|

63.872

|

64.406

|

0.83%  
  
December 2023

|

64.406

|

64.908

|

64.406

|

64.944

|

0.77%  
  
 _Source: Wallet Investor_

Both the new and departing CEOs hinted on fundamental changes in Intel's
manufacturing. As part of the company's 2023 roadmap, internal
manufacturing will account for the majority of production.

The leadership is likely to place a larger emphasis on a mixture of
Intel-manufactured and foundry-manufactured products. The upcoming Ponte
Vecchio server GPU is already confirmed to be taking this approach.

What does it mean for the company? With a way to leverage a cutting-edge
foundry process and keep at least some of its production inside the
U.S., Intel is likely to become more self-reliant, especially if AMD
continues to outsource its manufacturing to TSMC.

## Long-Term Intel Price Projection for 2025-2030

If the 2023 manufacturing plans work out, there is a reason to believe
that growth will continue. The Intel stock forecast for 2025 sees the
INTC future price moving from $69 to $72.

While it is too early to give an accurate 5-year forecast, let alone a
10-year forecast for 2030, Intel may be well on track to maintaining or
establishing even greater authority as one of the biggest and best tech
companies. The fact that management is making prudent investments today
contributes to a favorable long-term prediction and a positive trend
over the coming years.

## A Retrospective Look at Intel's Price History

Why is Intel stock down? Let’s investigate by looking at the
[timeline][1]. This will give us even more context for the INTC stock
forecast. To avoid making this section too drawn-out, we'll focus on
Intel's stock performance, starting from 2018.

The rise of smartphones, online gaming, cloud computing, and
cryptocurrency set the perfect framework for a company like Intel.
However, it didn't take full advantage of this due to production delays
and other missteps. In 2018-2019, Intel was unable to produce enough
CPUs to meet demand, practically giving a chunk of its market share to
rival Advanced Micro Devices.

Therefore, the stock had a bumpy ride in 2018-2019 with fluctuations
like this:

$57.08 - $44.00 - $51.59 - $44.96 - $52.54

Intel stock reached an impressive mark of $68.47 at the beginning of
2020, only to delay the production of its chips, falling to $45.83.

Amidst disrupted financial markets, the stock managed to climb back up
to 64.34 by June. But the blowback from Apple’s home-grown designs in
the same year made it struggle for the rest of the year, ending it below
$50.

The highest point in 2021 was at $68.26 at the beginning of May. But
just like before, it didn't stay above $60 for long. This was driven by
the risk that the company could fail to reach its current goals under
its new management. Other risks were the increased capital expenditures,
a loss of part of the market share, and changes in the data center
segment that could reduce the industry's dependence on Intel.

## Is It Worth Investing in Intel (INTC)?

Let's summarize the Intel stock predictions we've looked at in this
article. The average forecast for [Intel shares][1] for the next 5 years
is $65.

 **Year**

|

 **Start of the Year**

|

 **End of the Year**  
  
---|---|---  
  
2021

|

-

|

$56  
  
2022

|

$56

|

$60  
  
2023

|

$60

|

$64  
  
2024

|

$64

|

$68  
  
2025

|

$68

|

$72  
  
Despite the delay in the next-generation chip series and growing
competition, Intel’s products should realistically stay in demand. After
entering the GPU market, chances are the company will interfere with AMD
and Nvidia's dominance in the segment. As a result, future growth is
also underway.

With a general bullish Intel stock outlook by heavyweights, key hedge
funds seem to be the biggest enthusiasts. For an average trader, it's a
great indication of a good investment.

Baupost Group made a $906 million investment in Intel Corporation.
Citadel Investment Group invested $63.9 million in the last quarter.
Other new INTC [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are Discovery Capital Management, Holocene
Advisors, and Third Point.

If these positive price expectations caught your interest, it might be
the time to get into stock trading yourself. For a smooth introduction,
start by opening a Liteforex demo account. You'll get to explore the
markets at the current trading price with none of the risks. The account
is funded with entirely virtual money, but it still includes all the
functionalities and technical indicators you see in live trading.

## Intel Price Prediction FAQ

 _Information presented in this article is not intended as investment
advice. The data and opinions were collected from multiple sources that
may not be accurate. Before engaging in any form of investment, do your
own research and homework on the asset._

## Price chart of INTC in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=%23INTC
   2. www.liteforex.com/trading/trading-instruments/cfd-nasdaq/INTC/
   3. www.intc.com/filings-reports/all-sec-filings
   4. www.marketbeat.com/stocks/NASDAQ/INTC/price-target/
   5. uk.linkedin.com/in/ianjit-bhatti-339a6596
   6. www.linkedin.com/in/vivek-arya-phd-89a1257
   7. www.linkedin.com/company/needham-&-company
   8. www.linkedin.com/in/toshiya-hari-933a1323
   9. www.linkedin.com/in/john-pitzer-23544547
   10. www.tradingview.com/symbols/NASDAQ-INTC/