+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-24"
description = "Australian dollar price forecast 24 May 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Australian dollar price forecast 24 May 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-05-24

2021-05-24

Aussie is losing ground. Forecast as of 24.05.2021Dmitri Demidenko

If in 2020 the Australian dollar was among the main Forex favorites,
then in 2021 it gave away its position. Why is this happening? Let us
discuss the Forex outlook and make up an [AUDUSD][1] trading plan

## Monthly Australian dollar fundamental forecast

After the previous crisis of 2008-2009, the Aussie rose above $1.1 due
to the rapid rally in the commodity market, China's willingness to lead
the global economy, and the increased attractiveness of Australian
assets due to increased risk appetite. Optimists hoped that the Aussie
would be able to repeat its feat, but the [AUDUSD][1] consolidation in
the 0.77-0.782 trading range suggests that the upward movement is losing
impulse.

Each recession is unique. China's reluctance to take responsibility for
the global economy's fate and Beijing's tensions with Canberra
suggesting that the AUD will not be able to prove itself. China is the
largest commodity consumer. Its massive lending programs and
construction boom led the country to purchase $150 billion worth of oil,
iron ore and copper in January-April, $36 billion more than in the same
period last year. In May, the fears of the official Beijing due to
bubbles in the asset markets are forcing it to tighten the conditions
for granting loans and withdraw liquidity from circulation. The
shrinking credit impulse in China does not bode well for the commodity
market.

### Dynamics of the credit impulse and copper prices

 _Source: Bloomberg._

At the same time, China continues to create obstacles for Australian
exporters of commodities. Beijing officials said Chinese companies
should intensify domestic exploration for steel production, expand
import sources and explore overseas ore resources. Although it would be
unwise to impose tariffs on imports due to the huge scale of trade and
high prices, Beijing is able to create obstacles on the way of iron ore
to China.

The continuation of the conflict with China and the fact that the
commodity market is beginning to smell trouble due to the reduction in
Chinese credit impulse cannot but affect Australia's export-dependent
economy. In April, the country's employment contracted for the first
time in several months, which increases the risks of maintaining the
RBA's ultra-easy monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) for many years to come.

### Australian employment dynamics



 _Source: Bloomberg_.

Unlike the events of 10 years ago, now the yields on Australian bonds
are not growing so quickly, which is associated with the targeting of
the local RBA debt market rates. In June, the regulator will discuss the
viability of maintaining the current monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) settings, which,
according to Philip Lowe, limits the AUD's growth. Based on raw material
prices, Aussie's price should be significantly higher.

### Monthly [AUDUSD][1] trading plan

In my opinion, being the clear leader in 2020, the Aussie is turning
into an average G10 currency. Declining credit impulse in China,
tensions between Canberra and Beijing, and the Reserve Bank's bond yield
targeting [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) are limiting the potential for [AUDUSD][1] rallies. It
makes sense to enter longs if the pair's price rises above 0.7815 and
0.785. The risks of the correction development are quite high, and
[EURAUD][2] purchases are beginning to look attractive.



.





## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURAUD&returnUrl=true