+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-24"
description = "Euro price forecast 24 May 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 24 May 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-05-24

2021-05-24

Euro stepped back. Forecast as of 24.05.2021Dmitri Demidenko

It is too early to expect the tapering of European QE. Amid the leading
performance of the US GDP over the European peer, this fact encourages
the [EURUSD][1] bears. However, bulls have the power to fight back. Let
us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

Buy the [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/), sell the facts. The growth of composite PMI in the euro-
area, where the COVID-19 vaccination is progressing, hasn’t surprised
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s, allowing them to take the profit from the [EURUSD][1] three-
week rally. Any trend, no matter how strong it is, is followed by
corrections. The exiting of the euro longs after a strong report on the
euro area PMI has started a correction. The situation has been fueled by
Christine Lagarde’s dovish comments and US PMI impressive growth.

The gradual opening of economies leads to the fact that the service
sector begins to recover. The euro-area services PMI has featured the
best performance over the past three years. The US PMI hit 70.1 in May,
the second record growth since October 2009. Speed matters. If the euro
area recovers from the recession in the second quarter, then the US
economy can accelerate so that no other region will be able to catch up.

### Dynamics of services PMIs

 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

Will this fact break down the [EURUSD][1] uptrend? I do not think so.
Expectations of economic growth in the United States are already high,
but Europe is still able to present a pleasant surprise to euro buyers.
For example, the Bundesbank believes that Germany's GDP may surpass its
pre-pandemic level in the autumn, and consumer prices may exceed 4%,
which has not happened since the euro introduction. These optimistic
forecasts give rise to a hawkish attack within the ECB and suggest that
the June meeting of the Governing Council will be extremely hot.

Suspecting such a scenario, Christine Lagarde decided to discourage
speculators in advance. The ECB president said that the surge in
inflation will be temporary, and it is too early to talk about tapering
the emergency asset purchase program. The ECB wants to maintain
favorable financing conditions through the PEPP envelope and will
continue to buy out assets at least until March 2022. The program
currently stands at just over €80 billion per month and talks about
curtailing the purchasing monthly pace give reasons to buy the
[EURUSD][1].

### Dynamics of ECB bond-buying program



 _Source_ _: Financial Times_

In general, the ECB stance is similar to that of the Fed. However, the
US economic expansion is faster, and the vaccination acceleration in the
EU is not already anything new. Therefore, the euro correction should be
natural. Nonetheless, the euro has some other benefits, including the
recovery of global trade amid the gradual reduction of the US import
tariffs and Germany's government election in autumn. If the Greens win,
the euro-area fiscal stimulus will be expanded. So, there are quite many
reasons for the [EURUSD][1] uptrend continuation.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

I suppose it will be relevant to buy the euro when the price goes back
above $1.221. Unless the price rises, the [EURUSD][1] is likely to be
corrected down to 1.2125, 1.208, and 1.205.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true