+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-04"
description = "Euro price forecast 4 May 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 4 May 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-05-04

2021-05-04

Euro has a plan. Forecast as of 04.05.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The market usually buys the [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/). Therefore, the [EURUSD][1] is rising
even without the ratification of the European Recovery Fund. This
mechanism suggests an optimistic future for the euro-area and the euro.
Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Fundamental euro forecast today

Italy, Greece, and Spain are running big budget deficits and planning to
spend on a grand scale to revamp their economies. Italian Prime Minister
Mario Draghi and other leaders in the region claim that increased
investments can give lasting support to growth. If the plan doesn’t
work, these countries will be saddled with some of the world’s highest
debt ratios, potentially destabilizing the euro-area economy. After all,
as long as things go according to the plan, the [EURUSD][1] bulls can go
ahead.

Although the money from the European Recovery fund is not yet coming,
and Brussels is criticized for the slow ratification process, the
mechanism is already yielding the results, which is evident from the
euro strengthening in April. The European Recovery Fund allowed Italy
and other currency bloc members to have a reliable investment plan.
Italy will receive €190 billion, including €70 billion in grants. Mario
Draghi expects to add another € 60 billion from the local budget. It
turns out to be quite a sum, allowing Italians to look to the future
with optimism.

### Benefactors of European Recovery Fund

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

So, the stimulus, in addition to the acceleration of vaccination in the
EU, supports the PMI growth. In April, the euro-area manufacturing PMI
reached 62.9, the highest in the entire 24-year [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) of research. The
sector is clearly booming as demand recovered so quickly that many
products were in short supply. If we add to this the positive from
retail sales in Germany, it becomes clear that the worst for the
currency bloc is over, and the best is yet to come. But it will take
several more months before the European economy features a clear
improvement. According to the ECB Vice President Luis de Guindos, if the
EU's ambitious plan to vaccinate 70% of the adult population is
implemented, the central bank may start thinking about rolling back
monetary stimulus.

The ECB may start unwinding the QE before the Fed takes active steps,
which suggests a bullish outlook for the [EURUSD][1]. According to New
York Fed President John Williams, the current data and conditions are
not enough for the central bank to change its position. Jerome Powell
recently argued that they need to see several months of positive data to
show progress towards the Fed's goals. Is it possible that strong
statistics on the US labor market for April will make adjustments to the
Fed's outlook? __

In my opinion, the euro is much stronger now than it was in the first
quarter, but it is too early to give up on the greenback. May is
seasonally a bad month for the[S&P 500][2], whose drop amid the Treasury
yield rally resulted from the strong US domestic data will lure
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s back to safe-haven assets.

### Seasonal dynamics of the [S&P 500][2]

###

 _Source_ _: Nordea Markets_

### [EURUSD][1] trading plan today

In the March-April period, the [EURUSD][1] had clear trends. In May,
however, the pair can get stuck in the consolidation range, as both the
euro and the dollar have their own benefits. If the price breaks out the
resistance at 1.208, it could be relevant to enter longs. If the market
breaks out the support level of 1.201, one could enter shorts.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true