+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-04"
description = "NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 24. Progress Labels in triangles and zigzags."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 24. Progress Labels in triangles and zigzags."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 3, 2020

June 4, 2020

NeoWave. Part 24. Progress labels in triangles and zigzagsMikhail Hypov

## Progress labels in zigzags, contracting, non-limiting, and all types
of expanding triangles

Dear Friends!

To keep the presentations concise, I will remind you of the types of
triangles once again:

Contracting triangles:

  * Limiting
    * horizontal triangles;
    * irregular triangles;
    * running triangles.
  * Non-Limiting

Expanding triangles:

  * Limiting
    * horizontal triangles;
    * irregular triangles;
    * running triangles.
  * Non-Limiting

I covered each type of triangles in detail in [Part 14][1].

In the [previous training article][2], I covered the progress labels for
contracting limiting triangles. In this article, I will finish
explaining progress labels and deal with contracting non-limiting
triangles and expanding triangles. I will also explain the application
of progress labels to zigzags. As a bonus, I will describe three extra
corrective patterns, which Glenn Neely discovered after he had published
his book Mastering Elliott Wave.

Like in the previous educational article, I suggest you find the example
of all patterns described in the article yourself and put progress
labels in the price chart of any trading instrument. This is a very
useful skill for a trader to be able to discover patterns and correctly
interpret them for any trading instrument. The research data can be
found on the [LiteForex][3] platform.

If you are not familiar with the NeoWave theory, I recommend you to read
all the articles, starting from the first one, in the NeoWave series
based on Glenn Neely’s book Mastering Elliott Waves.

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][4].

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels. ][5]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][6]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][7]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][8]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][10].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][11].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][12].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][13].

[NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][14]

[NeoWave. Part 12. Impulsions and the rules to analyze impulse wave
patterns. ][15]

[NeoWave. Part 13. Corrections. Rules to identify a correction.][16]

[NeoWave. Part 14. Triangles. Rules to identify triangles.][1]

[NeoWave. Part 15. Basic and advanced rules of logic to analyze
triangles][17].

[NeoWave. Part 16. Extended rules of logic for Flats and Zigzags.][18]

[NeoWave. Part 17.][19][ ][19][Extended rules of logic for complex
corrective patterns.][19]

[NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance. Compaction
procedures. Power ratings.][20]

[NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels applied in trending impulses][21].

[NeoWave. Part 20. Application of progress labels to terminal
impulses.][22]

[NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships.][23]

[NeoWave. Part 22. Progress labels in flat corrections][24].

[NeoWave. Part 23. Progress labels in triangles. ][2]

### General rules for progress labels in Non-Limiting Triangles.

Non-Limiting triangles often occur as an X-wave at the end of complex
corrections. Besides, they could be the (E) wave within a larger
triangle. The most accurate signal confirming that there is forming a
non-limiting triangle is when the market contracts right into the apex
of the converging trendlines (within 20% of the entire triangle). Any
non-limiting triangle, except when it occurs as an X-wave, usually
concludes the phase of a larger correction. You can learn more about
non-limiting triangles in [Part 14][1].

I should note that non-limiting triangles obey the same rules as
irregular non-limiting triangles, and they also should meet some
requirements that are presented below:

The most common positions to occur:

  1. Wave (E) in the horizontal triangle
  2. The last phase of the double or triple three, double or triple combination, and also a running double three.
  3. Wave 5 in a terminal impulse
  4. Wave (X) in a complex correction

### Progress labels for wave (A) in a non-limiting triangle

In non-limiting triangles, wave (A) is commonly the most violent segment
of the triangle. (so that it covers the most price distance in the
shortest period of time). If wave (A) is __violent, then wave (B) should
break down into a much more complex and slower developing wave.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 24. Progress Labels in
triangles and zigzags.][25]

The chart roughly outlines a triangle. As the end of wave (E) falls into
the last 20% of the entire triangle added to its apex point, this is a
non-limiting triangle. By the way, wave (A) in this pattern features the
most violent price action compared to other segments.

### Progress labels foe wave (E) in complex triangles of all types.

Wave (E) in a complex triangle is often a non-limiting triangle.

### Progress labels in an Expanding Triangles

There are many rules that must be observed in an expanding triangle. You
can read about them in [part 14][1]. In this article, I will deal with
progress labels to different types of expanding triangles.

### General rules to apply progress labels to Expanding Limiting
Triangles

The expanding limiting triangle can be the fourth wave in an impulse or
the (B) wave in a correction. If it is the (B) wave, it can only be a
part of a flat. The expanding limiting triangles have the following
characteristics:

  * Waves (A) and (E) will usually relate by 161.8% (wave (E) is larger of the two).
  * Wave (A) or wave (B) will be the shortest segment if the triangle.
  * Wave (B) or wave (D) can fail, that is to exceed the end of the previous wave.

### Progress labels for an expanding horizontal triangle

  * Wave-a is the smallest segment or the Triangle.
  * There are no failures in a horizontal triangle.
  * Wave (E) should be the most violent, complex, and time-consuming pattern of the group.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 24. Progress Labels in
triangles and zigzags.][26]

The above chart schematically outlines an example of the expanding
limiting horizontal triangle marked with the above progress labels.

### Progress labels for an expanding irregular triangle

  * Wave (B) is a failure.
  * Waves (A) and (E) are likely to relate by 161.8%.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 24. Progress Labels in
triangles and zigzags.][27]

The above chart schematically displays the progress labels, described
above, typical for an expanding limiting irregular triangle. Wave (B), a
part of the irregular triangle, is a failure as it doesn’t reach the
high of the previous wave. Wave (E) is 161.8% of wave (A).

### Progress labels for an expanding running triangle

  * Wave (D) is a failure.
  * Waves (A) and (E) often relate by 261.8%.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 24. Progress Labels in
triangles and zigzags.][28]

The above chart displays an expanding running triangle with the typical
progress labels. Wave (D) is a failure as it fails to reach the
beginning of wave (C). Wave (E) is 261.8% of wave (A).

### General rules for progress labels in a Non-Limiting Expanding
Triangles

Non-Limiting Expanding Triangles should basically follow the same
parameters as limiting expanding triangles. However, in addition to the
basic rules covered in [part 14][1], there are a few differences that
need to be covered. In a non-limiting triangle, the chances are good
that no Fibonacci relationships will be present between its segments.
The only acceptable relationship can be between wave (A) and (E). Wave
(E) would be 261.8% of wave (A).

Here, I am going to finish covering progress labels applied to
triangles. Now, I shall move on to progress labels applied to zigzags to
finish describing advanced progress labels developed by Glenn Neely.

### Progress labels in zigzags

Remember, progress labels are the letters A, B, C that mark waves within
a zigzag. Unlike flat corrections, covered in [part 22][24], zigzags do
not have so many variations, but they must follow stricter rules. Below,
I will explain the typical features of zigzags depending on the waves
analyzed within the pattern.

### Progress labels for wave (A) in a zigzag

The first wave of the zigzag has the following characteristics:

  * Wave (A) must be an impulse structure
  * Wave (A) should not be retraced by wave (B) by more than 61.8%
  * In cases, when the (A) wave is impulsive, but the (B) wave retraces more than 61.8%, then that retracement will only be the sub-wave (A) (of one smaller degree) of wave (B). The sub-wave (C) of wave (B) will fail.
  * If part of the B-wave retraces 81% or more of wave (A), then you should recheck your analysis of wave (A). It will most likely fall under the missing wave rule in which wave (A) (that at a glance only looked impulsive) is likely to be a corrective double zigzag or double combination.

Let us see the application of the progress rules on an example.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 24. Progress Labels in
triangles and zigzags.][29]

The above chart displays a typical example of a polywave zigzag (that is
composed of the sequences of simpler waves). Note that its wave (A) is
impulsive, it is a five-wave sequence, whose waves are marked with the
green lines, wave (B) retraces 61.8% of wave (A).

### Progress labels for wave (B) in a zigzag

Wave (B) in a zigzag must observe the following rules:

  * Wave (B) of a complex zigzag must be corrective. However, it can’t be a running correction unless the zigzag, of which the (B) wave is a part, is in a triangle.
  * Wave (B) can not be a double or a triple zigzag, a running double or triple flat, or the combination of a zigzag and a flat.

Let us see the progress labels in the (B) wave on an example:

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 24. Progress Labels in
triangles and zigzags.][30]

Wave (B) in this zigzag is also a zigzag, that is a correction. So, the
rules of progress labels for wave (B) are met.

### Progress labels for wave (C) in a zigzag

Wave (C) in a zigzag must observe the following rules:

  * When a zigzag is not part of a triangle (of only one or two higher degrees), the length of wave (C) should fall between 61.8% and 161.8% of wave (A).
  * If the whole zigzag is part of a triangle, the (C) wave can be 161.8% or more of wave (A).
  * If wave C is more than 161.8% of wave (A), the zigzag will probably be a part of a triangle.

Let us see how the above rules work on an example:

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 24. Progress Labels in
triangles and zigzags.][31]

The above chart displays a zigzag. Wave (C) is more than 161.8% of wave
(A). Therefore, it must be a part of a triangle of one or two higher
degrees. Let us see if this signal will work out.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 24. Progress Labels in
triangles and zigzags.][32]

The zigzag we analyzed is the (A) wave of a contracting triangle of one
higher degree.

### Bonus. Extra corrective patterns discovered by Neely: Diametric
Formation, Neutral Triangle, Extracting Triangle.

In [Part 21][23] devoted to impulse patterns, I already wrote about two
extra impulse patterns that Glenn Neely discovered after Mastering
Elliott Wave had been published. Now, I want to cover a few extra
corrective patterns. I should note that these patterns are extremely
rare, so it is hard to find them in the real market. I present
schematically drawn charts, but I will be happy if you try to discover
them in the chart of [any trading instrument][3]. Share your discoveries
in the comments, I will be glad to look at them and give my comments.

### Diametric Formation

Neely discovered this pattern in 1991. At an early stage of its
formation, the pattern looked like a contracting triangle, however, when
the (D) completed, the behavior changed. Wave (E) was extremely long,
and there formed two zigzag-shaped waves following wave (E) within a new
formation. As a result, there is a pattern that could resemble a look of
a bowtie.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 24. Progress Labels in
triangles and zigzags.][33]

Note that the first series in the Diametric Formation develops like a
contracting triangle, but the second series unfolds as in an unusual for
a triangle way. For example, wave (E) goes far beyond the triangle
channel, it is followed by a strong zigzag-shaped retracement, which
followed by another retracement that is greater in price. Unfortunately,
I haven’t found any information on the wave relations or progress labels
within a pattern. You find any additional information about the NeoWave
Diametric, please share your discoveries in the comments.

### Neutral Triangle

This pattern explains the triangle corrective patterns that were not
understood earlier. Neely interprets the neutral triangle as a
transition pattern between impulsions and corrections. Accordingly, it
combines the features of an impulse and a correction.

In general, a neutral triangle follows the same rules that are relevant
for the usual triangles, but there is one exception. Like in an impulse,
it has an extended wave 3 or wave (C), which is the greatest and the
most time-consuming among the first three waves (A), (B) and (C). Wave
(D) is also quite big compared to other waves. In some cases, wave (D)
can even exceed wave (C) in price, but it is almost always less time-
consuming.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 24. Progress Labels in
triangles and zigzags.][34]

The chart schematically outlines a neutral triangle. It is clear that
wave (C) is the most time-consuming. Wave (D) retraces a little more
than 100% of wave (C). Note that the trendlines in this pattern are
drawn across the ends of waves (B) and (D), and waves (A) and (E), that
is the end of wave (C) is not taken into account.

### Extracting Triangle

The unique aspect of this Triangular sub-category is that the
alternation that is normally present in a Triangle (based on which wave
is the longest) is reversed. This creates a very strange looking
formation that can be very difficult to spot or interpret. If you manage
to discover one in a real price chart, please, do share in the comments!
The only early warning behavior characteristic that Neely has found
relates to wave (B). If wave (B) is much shorter than wave (A) and takes
less time than waves (A) and (C) and looks like a zigzag, an extracting
triangle is likely to be unfolding.

Extracting triangles usually emerge in the market of a neutral shift.
So, the pattern is generally followed by a weaker impulse than that
after a contracting triangle, but it is still stronger than the thrust
out of an expanding triangle.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 24. Progress Labels in
triangles and zigzags.][35]

Let us analyze this pattern in the example. It is clear from the above
chart that waves (A), (C), and (E) continuously contract in price from
left to right. Besides, waves (B) and (D) subsequently expand. Also,
note that wave (B) is the shortest in the pattern. Besides, the (B) wave
looks like a zigzag and consumes less time than other segments in the
extracting triangle.

That is all for today. Apply these techniques in practice and test
everything in trading. The LiteForex [functions](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/basic-functions/) are more than enough for
this. If you haven’t yet chosen your broker, it’s high time you started
trading with [LiteForex][36]. Besides, there is a wonderful opportunity
to win a dream house, a brand new car, and cool Apple gadgets in the
[dream draw][37] with the total prize fund of 350 000 USD.

In the next educational article, I will deal with channeling techniques
and advanced Fibonacci relations. I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

Subscribe to stay informed on the latest updates!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][38]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][39] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![NeoWave. Part 24. Progress labels in triangles and zigzags][40]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-14-corrections-triangles-rules-to-identify-triangles/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-23-progress-labels-and-their-application-to-triangles/
   3. my.liteforex.com/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   11. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b/
   12. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a/
   13. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-10-retracement-rule-6-conditions-b-c-and-d/
   14. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-11-retracement-rule-7/
   15. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-12-impulsions-and-the-rules-to-analyze-impulse-wave-patterns/
   16. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-13-corrections-rules-to-identify-a-correction/
   17. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-15-basic-and-advanced-rules-of-logic-to-analyze-triangles/
   18. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-16-extended-rules-of-logic-for-zigzags-and-flat-corrections/
   19. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-17-extended-rules-of-logic-for-complex-corrections-exceptions-to-the-rules-2020-05-07/
   20. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-18-rules-of-complexity-and-balance-compaction-procedures-power-ratings/
   21. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-19-progress-labels-and-application-of-progress-labels-to-trending-impulses/
   22. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-20-application-of-progress-labels-to-terminal-impulses/
   23. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-21-channeling-in-impulses-and-fibonacci-relationships/
   24. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-22-progress-labels-and-their-application-to-flat-corrections/
   25. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.31/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=76cf3ce2349b11c28576dabe37f16789
   26. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.31/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=290da4f65c7847ea91a57b81ebb5a753
   27. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.31/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=0563f9a313bb5336c588a665b4198bfe
   28. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.31/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=6648eaa4cf22991b6788633057b73273
   29. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.31/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=6357c764bb077e58ad40a5aff541d62a
   30. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.31/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=c558a13992950be4f136230466a19ed6
   31. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.31/BTCUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=499a24831aa56480654f46b59bad6481
   32. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.31/BTCUSD_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=b3efa3ff079b05a0ec0b095d39fbd94a
   33. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.31/BTCUSD_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=d76bd74b9415c28d51a3766c6adc4128
   34. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.31/BTCUSD_hypov_10.jpg?w=30&s=b6eeec341f23d52482b1a374bcd7119b
   35. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.31/BTCUSD_hypov_11.jpg?w=30&s=c7a0c51b476dc84dc7a999779111b1cf
   36. my.liteforex.com/trading
   37. www.liteforex.com/contests/dream-draw/
   38. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-24-progress-labels-in-triangles-and-zigzags&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   39. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-24-progress-labels-in-triangles-and-zigzags&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   40. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.31/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=7e4807da578703eb65660a191a96683f