+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-15"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=27.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 15, 2020

July 15, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.07.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil is trading in the medium-term uptrend. The price is now trading
under the resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. If it is broken out,
the next growth target will be Target Zone 6 [49.17 – 48.42].

Otherwise, the price will be corrected down to the trend key support
[33.64 — 32.86].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.07.2020][1]

In the short-term timeframe, oil is trading between the support [39.32 –
39.15] and the resistance [40.37 – 40.20]. The short-term trend is up.

If the price breaks out the support [39.32 – 39.15], it should continue
falling towards Intermediary Zone [37.54 – 37.15].

If buyers break out the resistance [40.37 – 40.20], the price will be
likely to break through June’s high.

I recommended selling oil according to the pattern yesterday. At the US
session, the price again has approached Additional Zone [40.37 - 40.20]
and there is a good entry point. The stop loss should be at 41.05.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.07.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today: **

Hold down sell trades entered in Additional Zone [40.37 - 40.20].
TakeProfit: 38.57, 37.00. StopLoss: 41.05.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

In the medium-term timeframe, gold uptrend has stopped under the
resistance Target Zone 6 [1817.2 — 1811.2]. It is yet too early to sell
gold, we need a sell pattern “double extreme” or some other technical
analysis pattern to confirm the idea to sell.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.07.2020][4]

The short-term gold trend is up. Yesterday, traders were again testing
Additional Zone [1797.6 - 1795.6]. There was again a buy pattern, a
false breakout of the extreme.

According to this pattern, we should be holding the purchases up to the
target at the high of July 8. A stop loss should be at the breakeven, as
the price has tested Gold Zone [1812.5 – 1808.0].

If the gold price breaks out Gold Zone and consolidates above, the next
upside target will be Target Zone [1862.8 – 1853.7].

An alternative scenario suggests breaking through the local high and
going back to Gold Zone. If so, there will be a false breakout pattern
and a signal to sell in the longer timeframe.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.07.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

Hold up buy trades entered in Additional Zone [1797.6 - 1795.6].
TakeProfit: 1818.3. StopLoss: 1790.7.

* * *

##  **Euro to dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The EURUSD broke out the resistance [1.1368 – 1.1350]. The next growth
targets are the high of June and Target Zone 2 [1.1550 — 1.1532].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.07.2020][7]

Let us switch to a shorter timeframe.

The EURUSD worked out the recommendation to buy in Intermediary Zone
[1.1279 — 1.1270]. The price tested level 1.1385. All short-term buy
trades should be exited.

Yesterday, buyers tried to consolidate the price above the resistance
[1.1385 - 1.1367]. They didn’t succeed at the first try. The US session
closed the price inside the zone.

Today’s trade session started with a short price rise, but the price is
now being corrected and getting close to [1.1385 - 1.1367]. If the zone
is tested, I recommend entering new long trades according to the pattern
with the target at yesterday’s high.

The key support is now in the zone of [1.1332 — 1.1323].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.07.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1377 - 1.1373]. TakeProfit: 1.1421. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1332 - 1.1323]. TakeProfit: 1.1421. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 15.07.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_150720_1.png?w=30&s=b691447703d934da88b50b4977e3aa8c
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_150720_2.png?w=30&s=68f4093548b56bd18f20c4355a21a03d
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_150720_1.png?w=30&s=e1d0895225eefddc17b9403a32a45ae8
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_150720_2.png?w=30&s=7368bd3cfa9e555f87e588d2c48f162c
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_150720_1.png?w=30&s=8e46d4dfdc1148cd7acdb87bc342faf1
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_150720_2.png?w=30&s=c4a6ee35540dbc5286dae3c8639a47e1
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-15072020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-15072020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/dollar.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=f76aadedfe72c224a7a4fe603cdba77d