+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-29"
description = "Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 29, 2020

May 29, 2020

Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USDAlex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

The oil price has reached the main upside target in the middle-term
uptrend, Target Zone 4 [34.17 - 33.42]. There is now forming the
consolidation zone under the resistance. The further trend will be
determined when the price breaks this zone out either upside or downside
next week.

Differently put, if Target Zone 4 is broken out, the next upside target
will be Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. If the price breaks out level
29.05, there will start a correction down to trend key support [24.47 –
23.57]. The first scenario suggests entering purchases in the strong
support zones, the second one – selling in the correction.

To trade in the trend, we shall expect the test of Target Zone [24.47 –
23.57] and look for a buy pattern.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][1]

 **[USCrude][2]Trading tips for the upcoming week: **

Buy according to the pattern in Target Zone [24.47 - 23.57]. TakeProfit:
Target Zone 4 [34.17 - 33.42]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

In the previous weekly forex analytics, I wrote that the gold uptrend
was slowing down and there was a chance to sell the precious metal from
level 1735.0 in the correction.![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil,
gold and EUR/USD][3]

As you see, the correction has continued this week, and the trading idea
is still relevant, hold sell trades entered at level 1735.0 down to the
lower Target Zone [1673.6 – 1664.4].

Do not forget that the trend is up, so I recommend moving the sell
trades to the breakeven.

When the price reaches the lower IZ, I suggest taking profits and
resuming looking for buy entries according to the pattern. The upside
target will be the local high of last week.

The gold medium-term trend will turn down if the price breaks out the
key support and consolidates below. In this scenario, the downside
target will be the lower Target Zone 2, but this is an alternative
scenario.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][4]

 **[XAUUSD][5]  Trading tips for the upcoming week: **

Hold down sell trades entered at level 1735.0. TakeProfit: Target Zone
[1673.6 - 1664.4]. StopLoss: at breakeven.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EUR/USD is trading up in the middle-term trend.

Last week, I recommended buying the euro-dollar in the zone of [1.0897 –
1.0878]. The targets were the high at 1.1017 and Target Zone 2 [1.1109 –
1.1091]. All the buy targets have been reached this week.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][6]

The further trend depends on the buyers’ ability to break out the strong
resistance TZ2. If the price breaks out the zone and consolidates above,
the next upside target will be Target Zone 3 [1.1291 - 1.1273].
Otherwise, there will start a correction down.

If the price is being corrected down, we could look for sell pattern
with the target at the new key support of the trend in the zone of
[1.0929 — 1.0910].

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][7]

 **[EURUSD][8]  Trading tips for the upcoming week: **

Buy according to the pattern in the zone of Target Zone [1.0929 -
1.0910]. TakeProfit: 1.1110. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][9]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][10] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][11]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/USCrude_analysis_290520.png?w=30&s=9dc24863b35b6d3af5b0593adcd61770
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_220520.png?w=30&s=a875ff0379a5e0fc99793ee37d363eea
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_290520.png?w=30&s=f7f6bf8d64c4b91b9408bce181b808cd
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_220520.png?w=30&s=6b04402055e1288e54a8a6514a0a81aa
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_290520.png?w=30&s=64d11ff44ee4dc5bac54e819c66b3f20
   8. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   9. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-2020-05-29&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   10. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-2020-05-29&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/forex_15.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=5c8d259f7cf0c8b36f97b2d674935652