+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-14"
description = "Markets wait for fiscal stimulus"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Markets wait for fiscal stimulus"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 14, 2020

August 14, 2020

Is the US printing press broken?Dmitri Demidenko

## Democrats and Republicans haggle over every cent and make financial
markets nervous

It’s easier to deal with the fact money is evil when you’ve got lots of
money. [S&P 500][1] soared by 51% from March’s trough within 100 days on
a significant monetary stimulus. It’s been the best upsurge since 1933.
The Fed doesn’t seem to lack for money. However, the Central Bank
summons the Congress and the White House to extend financial support,
while Donald Trump says state governors can afford to provide some
money. So my question is: is the US printing press broken?

The lawmakers had no difficulty providing the first $3 trillion to
support the collapsing economy, but providing another relief package is
taking a much bigger effort. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin says that
Nancy Pelosi,

Speaker of the US House of Representatives doesn’t want to talk to him
until he consents to provide another $2 trillion. Keep in touch! And
drop in when you’ve got money.

Can this all be about gender issues? Men have never understood women:

> \- What would you like, Nancy?

>

> \- I want to be happy!

>

> \- New shoes, then?

>

> \- Exactly!

![LiteForex: Markets wait for fiscal stimulus][2]

The same about the fiscal stimulus:

> \- Nancy, do you think $1 trillion would be enough?

>

> \- No, I don’t, she agreed.

Men’s inner world is more complex, while women’s one is more
unpredictable. Whatever all this may be about, the confrontation between
the Republicans and the Democrats, the main current topic in the
financial markets, has dragged on.

S&P 500 had been growing on expectations that the deal would be finally
concluded. Then Trump ridiculed his opponents’ demands, related a relief
package to mail voting cancellation, and asked state governors to
provide money. Thus, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s could smell a rat.  However, the local
authorities complained about the pandemic-driven lack of money, which
made Trump look even more ridiculous:

> \- Why does this monument portray the president in such an indecent
pose?

>

> \- He was supposed to be on a horse, but the city council didn’t have
enough money for a horse.

![LiteForex: Markets wait for fiscal stimulus][3]

Trump’s resistance may seem unexpected, even more so because he wasn’t
used to sparing money before. Massive tax reform and the first round of
fiscal stimuli prove that. The man’s main principle was “after us the
deluge” for sure, but the situation changed as the elections are getting
closer. The Democrats will most likely manage to portray the support for
the unemployed as their victory, which will raise Joe Biden’s rating
even higher.

![LiteForex: Markets wait for fiscal stimulus][4]

Trump will have to hold on January’s trade deal with China. China
doesn’t fulfil its obligations to buy American products, but the paradox
is that trading is almost the only sector of the China-US cooperation.
Beijing says that beautiful flowers don’t grow in harsh conditions. I
hope they won’t die entirely after the US Trade Representative Robert
Lighthizer and China’s Vice Premier Liu He meet on 15th August.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of SPX in real time mode

![Is the US printing press broken?][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/woman-14-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=f154f1cc167adc8c172baf13bd9cbbb3
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/trump-14-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=00e4d4fe0df58e60f525fac1101e5c2c
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/elections-14-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=8ee4730f114b1ea8273947ef034573c4
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=is-the-us-printing-press-broken&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=is-the-us-printing-press-broken&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/liteforex-blog-dollar-14-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=7ab7df2a2e03eecdb21fb9503c2eee84