+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-11"
description = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week January 11- 15 2021| LiteForex"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Elliott wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week January 11- 15 2021| LiteForex"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-11

2021-01-11

Medium-term forecast for five cryptocurrencies as of 11.01.2021Roman
Onegin

I welcome my readers!

I have prepared a medium-term cryptocurrency forecast based on Elliott
wave analysis of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS, and Ripple. I offer
trading signals for each cryptocurrency pair.

Ethereum, Litecoin, and Ripple are forming final impulse waves in the
global zigzags.

The article covers the following subjects:

##  **Elliott wave Bitcoin analysis**

The BTCUSD [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) timeframe displays the structure of the bullish impulse
that has been developing for more than three years. In March 2020,
corrective wave 4, composed of three sub-waves [W]-[X]-[Y], successfully
completed. Next, the price started rising in the upward wave 5 that is
unfolding as a five-impulse. The first four legs of wave 5 seem to have
completed, and the price is running up in the final wave [5]. Let us
study the chart structure in more detail.

As it is clear from the eight-hour timeframe, wave [5] is an impulse,
where four legs out of five have finished. After the corrective wave (4)
ended, the price rose sharply in the final wave (5). If bulls continue
driving the price up, there should be shaping the final impulse 5 that
will conclude the entire wave (5) at a level of around 50000.00.
Therefore, one could enter long trades in the current situation.

### Trading plan for [BTCUSD][1] for the week:

Buy 33108.00, TP 50000.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ethereum analysis**

The ETHUSD market must be forming a simple zigzag A-B-C, which started
in 2017. The first two legs of this global pattern have completed. Wave
A is a bullish impulse, and correction B is a bearish triple zigzag.
There is now developing the final impulse wave C, namely its final wave
[5]. Let us explore its structure in more detail in the eight-hour
timeframe.

It is clear that after the corrective wave [4] ended, the market has
started rising. Over the past few months, the four legs of the impulse
wave [5] have completed. The price is rapidly rising in the final wave
(5). The market should hit level 1450.00, which is a little higher than
the previous high marked by wave A. An approximate trajectory of the
Ethereum future price movement is outlined in the chart. One could enter
purchases under the current conditions.

### Trading plan **[ETHUSD][2] **for the week:

Buy 1000.49, TP 1450.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Litecoin analysis**

The LTCUSD market situation is similar to that of ETHUSD. The market is
forming a simple zigzag A-B-C, with the two sub-waves completed inside:
the bullish impulse A and the bearish triple zigzag B. At the time of
writing, there is forming the impulse wave C, namely, its corrective
wave [4]. Let us study the structure of the most recent chart section in
a shorter timeframe.

As it is clear from the most recent chart section, the market has
finished forming the upward impulse wave [3], driving the price to a
high level. The price should soon run down in the corrective wave [4] to
a level of 115.00. At this level, correction [4] should be 50% of the
impulse wave 3, according to the Fibonacci retracements. Next, the price
should continue rising in the final wave [5].

### Trading plan for **[LTCUSD][3]**  for the week:

Sell 135.00, TP 115.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave EOS analysis**

The EOSUSD market continues forming a zigzag-shaped pattern composed of
five sub-waves [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The sub-waves [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X] have
completed, and the final wave [Z] is still unfolding. Wave [Z], like the
previous motive waves [W] and [Y], could finish as a standard zigzag.
The linking waves [X] and [X] have a more complex structure. Let us see
the structure of the most recent chart section in more detail in a
shorter timeframe.

It is clear that the market must have recently finished the second
linking wave [X] as a triple zigzag (w)-(x)-(y)-(xx)-(z). Next, the
price started falling. There might be developing the first impulse wave
(A) of the zigzag-shaped wave [Z]. It should end at a level of about
2.21. Next, the market could rise a little in the (B) correction,
followed by a decline in the (C) wave, as it is outlined in the chart.
In the current situation, one could enter short positions.

### Trading plan for **[EOSUSD][4]**  for the week:

Sell 2.62, TP 2.21

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ripple analysis**

The XRPUSD market is forming the large upward zigzag A-B-C. The bullish
impulse wave A ended at a level of 3.20. Next, over almost the past
three years, the price has been following the corrective wave B that is
a triple zigzag. The market seems to have completed the B correction.
There should be developing the beginning of the new bullish trend. Let
us see the most recent chart section in the eight-hour timeframe.

It is clear that after the final wave [Z] ended, concluding the B
correction, the market has started rising. There should be unfolding the
first sub-wave of the new impulse. Wave (1) must end as a leading
diagonal, as wave 4 ended higher than wave 1 did. The market should be
rising in wave 5 to a level of 0.393. Next, the Ripple price could start
declining in correction (2), as it is outlined in the chart.

### Trading plan for **[XRPUSD][5]** for the week:

Buy 0.266, TP 0.393

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-11012021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-11012021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus