+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-11"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (11 January 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (11 January 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-11

2021-01-11

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 11.01.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Since the beginning of the year, the margin requirements for oil futures
have changed. The new margin is 4525 USD per contract.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Since the beginning of the year, the margin requirements for the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange oil futures have changed. The new margin is 4525 USD
per contract. We should draw margin zones formed from extremes after
January 7 according to the new margin requirements.

Oil is trading in the medium-term uptrend. Target Zone 3 [49.62 - 49.11]
has been broken out in the first week of 2021. The next growth target is
Target Zone 4 [54.72 - 54.21].

Look for oil purchases according to the patterns in the zone [49.62 -
47.75].

Let's take a look at the chart of a shorter timeframe. The short-term
oil uptrend continues to develop. On Friday the price reached the Gold
Zone [52.39 - 52.16]. This is a strong resistance that has not yet been
broken out.

Now the oil price is trading in the correction and is approaching the
support at Additional Zone [51.59 - 51.48]. Wait for the test of the
zone, enter purchases according to the pattern. A target will be at
Friday’s local high.

If the Additional Zone is broken out, the correction will continue with
the target in the Intermediary Zone [50.46 - 50.24]. This is the border
of the short-term uptrend. After testing that zone, look for long trades
according to the pattern.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [51.59 - 51.48]. TakeProfit: 52.68. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [50.46 - 50.24]. TakeProfit: 52.68. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

In the first week of the new year, the gold medium-term trend reversed
up. Target Zone 2 [2005.8 - 1994.3] is the target for purchases.

At the end of last week, the price was corrected down to the zone of the
trend key support [1859.2 - 1849.2]. The price didn’t break out the
zone. The trend border can be drawn at the level of 1816.9.

While the supports are being held, I suggest looking for gold purchases
according to the pattern.

Let's take a look at the short-term trend in the chart of a shorter
timeframe. It turned down after breaking out the Intermediary Zone
[1909.2 - 1904.2]. As a result, the lower Target Zone [1859.2 - 1849.2]
has been reached.

The gold price is being corrected up in the short-term downtrend. The
likely target of the correction is the key resistance of the
Intermediary Zone [1872.1 - 1867.1]. After reaching the zone, we shall
wait for the reaction of the traders.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Open medium-term buy positions according to the pattern [1859.2 -
1816.9]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [2005.8 - 1994.3]. StopLoss:
according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Target Zone 3 [1.2232 - 1.2212] has been broken out at the end of last
year. The medium-term trend remains up. The next growth target is Target
Zone 4 [1.2441 - 1.2420].

Now the euro prices are approaching the trend key support [1.2165 -
1.2146]. Look for a buy pattern after testing this price zone.

The chart of a shorter timeframe shows the breakout of the Intermediary
Zone [1.2257 - 1.2248] and a change of the short-term trend to a
downtrend. Today the price has reached Target Zone [1.2165 - 1.2146].

I believe the euro’s short-term fall hasn’t finished yet. We can expect
the test of level 1.2146 and a further decline to Gold Zone [1.2073 -
1.2064] if the price consolidates below Target Zone.

In this regard, for today I suggest entering euro sales from strong
resistances in Additional Zone [1.2217 - 1.2212] and Intermediary Zone
[1.2267 - 1.2258].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.2217 - 1.2212]. TakeProfit: 1.2146. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.2267 - 1.2258]. TakeProfit: 1.2146. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-11012021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-11012021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus