+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-26"
description = "Canadian dollar price forecast 26 April 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Canadian dollar price forecast 26 April 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-26

2021-04-26

Canadian dollar - exception to the rules. Forecast as of
26.04.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Unlike the Fed officials, who need to think about how not to scare the
financial markets by the QE tapering, other central banks can
experiment. One of the first was the Bank of Canada. What came out of
this? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan for
[USDCAD][1]

## Fundamental Canadian dollar forecast for six months

At the end of April, the Canadian dollar frayed traders' nerves, first
falling along with the oil price, and then marked the best [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/)
dynamics over the past ten months against the backdrop of a more hawkish
BoC stance than the market expected. Despite the rise in COVID-19 cases,
which Prime Minister Justin Trudeau called very serious, the Bank of
Canada cut its QE program by a quarter from CA$4 billion to CA$3 billion
a week and raised its forecasts for key macroeconomic indicators. In
fact, the BoC initiated the tapering of monetary stimulus, but financial
markets view its actions as an exception to the rule.

According to the Bundesbank president, Jens Weidmann, emergency asset
purchase programs cannot last forever. They appeared with the pandemic
and should be ended as soon as the COVID-19 is defeated. The Bank of
Canada has shown how regulators can behave when the GDP pattern of
growth turns out to be stronger than expected. Indeed, the Canadian
labor market has recovered by 90% from pre-crisis levels, while the US
figure is just 60%. The BoC expects inflation to exceed its target for
the longest period in twenty years. The Bank of Canada raised its 2021
GDP forecasts by 2.5% to 6.5%.

Tiff Macklem and his colleagues believe that consumer prices will
stabilize near 2% in the second half of 2022, suggesting that the Bank
of Canada will start raising the overnight rate during this period. In
fact, the BoC synchronized its forecasts to the derivatives market's
expectations, which became the main driver of the [USDCAD][1] decline.
Swaps signal a 50% chance of rate hikes by April 2022 and predict the
odds of three and five hikes over the next two and three years,
respectively.

The QE tapering is a logical decision against the background of the
unprecedented scale of the program in relation to the size of the
Canadian bond market. According to Manulife Financial, the BoC owns
about 30% of Canada's total federal debt, while repurchasing about 80%
of bonds issued in the previous 2020/2021 fiscal year.

### Dynamics of bond purchases by the Bank of Canada

 _Source: Bloomberg._

In 2021/2022, the government intends to increase the net emission of
bonds with a maturity of ten years or more from CA$107 billion to CA$121
billion. This circumstance, along with expectations of inflation
acceleration and the BoC's hawkish stance, increased the yield on
Canadian bonds and narrowed their spreads with the US bonds, which
encouraged [USDCAD][1] bears. The fact that Tiff Macklem didn’t pay
attention to the CAD rate also speaks volumes.

### [USDCAD][1] trading plan for six months

In my opinion, the bullish oil market conditions, the faster recovery of
the Canadian economy compared to other developed countries, and the
early start of monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) normalization indicate the continuation
of the [USDCAD][1] downtrend. Canada's vaccination rate is still slow,
but, as the EU experience shows, the acceleration of this process will
play into the loonie's hands. Continue to sell USDCAD in the direction
of levels 1.236, 1.208, and 1.2.



## Price chart of USDCAD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCAD&returnUrl=true