+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-09-24"
description = "US dollar price forecast 24 September 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 24 September 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-09-24

2021-09-24

Dollar plays cats and mouse. Forecast as of 24.09.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The [EURUSD][1] bears are less aggressive amid a rise in the global risk
appetite, but they still dominate the market. Let us discuss the Forex
outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

The Fed’s willingness to act according to the plan convinced [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s
in the soon end of the QE and brought optimism to the market. Investors
believe now that the US economy is able to live through the monetary
normalization, Delta, and Evergrande default. A slowdown in GDP growth
is just a slowdown; it is not a recession. The [Dow Jones][2] has
performed the best two-day rally over the past six months, and the
10-year Treasury yield is up above 1.44%. Selling off safe havens
allowed [EURUSD][1] bulls to cover a part of losses caused by Jerome
Powell.

IHS Markit reported that the US PMI was down from 55.4 to 54.5 in
September; however, the indicator still signals the US economy’s
expansion. Yes, the OECD lowered its forecast for US GDP for 2021 from
6.9% to 6%, but the expected growth in the US is still higher than both
in the euro area (+5.3%) and the global economy in general (+5.7%). The
US exclusivity will continue supporting both the Fed’s plans and the US
dollar strengthening in the medium and long term, although the euro
could well be corrected up in the short term.

The US households are sitting on a lot of savings. The amount of cash
and cash equivalents on household balance sheets rose to $16.5 trillion
in the second quarter, up from $12.7 trillion in the fourth quarter of
2019. When the pandemic is over, Americans will spend all that money.
Therefore, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s grow confident in the US economy’s strength, and
the risk appetite is up. Besides, the growth of the US stock indexes
allowed the [EURUSD][1] bulls to ignore a sharp drop in the euro-area
PMI to a five-month low in September.

### Dynamics of euro-area PMIs

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The euro bulls have also been encouraged by the hawkish tone of the BoE,
stating that the UK inflation could be above 4% in the second quarter of
2022. If so, the regulators will be more likely to raise the Bank rate
earlier than currently expected, supporting the pound. The sterling
strengthening sent other European currencies up.

But still, the ECB looks like an odd man among other central banks. Only
the Bank of Japan and the SNB stick to similar ultra-easy monetary
policies, including negative interest rates. Their opponents are most of
the other central banks in advanced economies, including the Fed.
Divergence in monetary policies proves the stability of the [EURUSD][1]
downtrend. Therefore, the current euro rise is just a correction.

### Weekly [EURUSD][3] trading plan

It is clear that an increasing number of FOMC officials are starting to
worry about high inflation. The Fed’s September forecast for core PCE at
2.3% in 2022 was the highest for the next year since such estimates
started being published in 2007. The Fed will raise interest rates at
least six times by the end of 2024, while the ECB will only start this
process in three years. The [EURUSD][1] downtrend should continue.
Therefore, I suggest using the current correction to sell the pair on
the rebound from the resistances at 1.1775 and 1.179 or on the breakout
of the supports at 1.1725 and 1.1715.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/ru/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/ru/trading/chart?symbol=YM&returnUrl
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true