+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-05"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 05.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 05.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 5, 2020

August 5, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 05.08.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil price has stopped under the resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67 –
40.92]. According to margin zones, good price to buy oil will be in:

  1. either in the trend key support zone [35.54 – 34.86];
  2. or after the breakout of TZ5 and the consolidation above, on the zone retest.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 05.08.2020][1]

In the shorter timeframe, oil is trading in the short-term uptrend. The
price is now rising from the key support [38.94 – 38.60]. The upside
target is the high of July.

The price yet can’t break through the strong resistance Target Zone 5
[41.67 - 40.92]. We shall see if buyers will break it out at last. If
they do, the next upside target is Gold Zone 5 [45.04 – 44.67].

My trading recommendations for today are the same as yesterday. Hold up
buy trades entered in Additional Zone. One could shift the purchases to
the breakeven. If the price breaks out level 40.05, sell according to
the pattern in Additional Zone [40.34 — 40.19].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 05.08.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:**

Hold up buy trades entered in Additional Zone [40.34 - 40.19].
TakeProfit: 42.30. StopLoss: at breakeven.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold tops $2000 an ounce. The gold middle-term trend remains up. If the
US session closes above TZ 9 [1997.2 - 1991.2], the next upside target
will be in Target Zone 10 [2057.2 — 2051.2].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 05.08.2020][4]

In the local short-term uptrend, gold reached Gold Zone [2034.0 –
2030.0]. It is a strong resistance. If the price breaks out the
resistance, the resistance will be a support, the next target will be in
Target Zone 2 [2079.1 - 2070.9].

Enter new gold buy trades both in Additional Zone and in the trend key
support [1990.0 - 1986.0]. The buy target will be the local high.

There are no patterns to sell gold.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 05.08.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1990.0 - 1986.0].
TakeProfit: 2034.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The EUR/USD middle-term uptrend continues. The price reached Target Zone
4 [1.1914 – 1.1896]. After the price tested TZ 4, the price started a
correction down and reached the trend key support [1.1726 - 1.1708].
Buyers entered new buy trades in the key support zone. Expect a buy
pattern, and, when there is one, open new euro purchases with the target
at the high of last week.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 05.08.2020][7]

As it is clear from the shorter timeframe, the eurusd is trading between
Intermediary Zone [1.1796 - 1.1787] and Target Zone [1.1726 - 1.1708].
The price reached the resistance, but the resistance hasn’t been broken
out. To buy the euro, the price should be consolidated above level
1.1796 at the US session.

The short-term trend is yet down, so, it is relevant to look for sell
trades according to the pattern in IZ. The target will be the low of
this week.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 05.08.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1796 - 1.1787].
TakeProfit: 1.1698. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 05.08.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_050820_1.png?w=30&s=fd9e5d54330a6dea776b32f8d08f9723
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_050820_2.png?w=30&s=bdacbf235e5b0277ca7f1911b677495c
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_050820_1.png?w=30&s=cc9e65b4336c96613d8ec1be553e9f6e
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_050820_2.png?w=30&s=07dd88fee75cdc42636661096d5524e6
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_050820_2.png?w=30&s=c5f70d797ab2e637449443a96a0aa067
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_050820_1.png?w=30&s=473ad89fdf231814eb94448e26f2ec4f
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-05082020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-05082020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_144.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=e38c2f66b6a0ba415340a413ba71eaee