+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-21"
description = "Elliot wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week September 21-25 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Elliot wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week September 21-25 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-21

2020-09-21

Medium-term forecast for five cryptocurrencies 21.09.2020Roman Onegin

I welcome my readers!

I have prepared a medium-term cryptocurrency forecast based on Elliott
wave analysis of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS, and Ripple. I offer
trading signals for each cryptocurrency pair.

Almost all cryptocurrency pairs are forming upward corrective waves.
This week, the cryptocurrency market should be corrected up. Read the
detailed cryptocurrency analysis in the article.

The article covers the following subjects:

##  **Elliott wave Bitcoin analysis**

The BTCUSD market continues forming the global corrective wave 4 as a
double down zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]. Wave [W] is a simple zigzag. The linking
wave [X] is a bullish double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y), where the sub-waves (W)
and (X) have completed, wave (Y), composed of the sub-waves A-B-C, is
yet unfolding. Let us see its structure in more detail in the shorter
timeframe.

It is clear that the impulse wave A has completed, it is composed of
five sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5]. The market is now forming the down
corrective wave B that could conclude as a double zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y].
There is now forming the bullish linking wave [X]; it should end at a
level of 11480. Next, the Bitcoin price could start declining in the
final motive wave [Y] to a level of 8160.

### Trading plan for [BTCUSD][1] for the week

Buy 10972.00, TP 11480.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ethereum analysis**

In the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) ETHUSD price chart, there is forming the upward linking
wave [X] that started in late 2018. The [X] wave should be developing as
a triple zigzag composed of five sub-waves (W)-(X)-(Y)-(X)-(Z). The (Y)
wave has completed recently. The market is now declining in the initial
element of the linking wave (X). The price should continue running down
to the support level of 162.14, which is close to the channel border.
The channel is drawn across the tops of waves (W)-(X)-(Y). Let us see
the structure of the [X] wave in more detail in the eight-hour
timeframe.

Wave [X] may conclude as a standard zigzag A-B-C. The impulse wave A has
already completed. The price is rising in the corrective wave B. The
price should rise in impulse [c] of B towards a level of 420.00. At this
level, the B correction will reach 61.8% Fibonacci level of the A
impulse. Next, the price should be declining in impulse wave C, as it is
outlined in the chart.

### Trading plan **[ETHUSD][2]** for the week

Buy 374.00, TP 420.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Litecoin** **analysis**

The LTCUSD market is forming the global corrective wave B, namely, its
final leg, the zigzag-shaped wave [Z]. It is unfolding as a simple
zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). Impulse wave (A) has completed, the bullish
correction (B) also looks complete. There is now developing the bearish
impulse wave (C). Let us see its structure in the eight-hour timeframe.

The impulse wave (C) of [Z], currently unfolding, is composed of five
elements, they are the sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. Most likely, the first three
legs of this impulse have completed, and correction 4 is now unfolding.
When it finishes, the market could start declining in wave 5 towards the
previous low made by wave (A), level 25.00.

### Trading plan for **[LTCUSD][3]**  for the week

Buy 47.52, TP 53.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave EOS analysis**

 ****

The EOSUSD market is forming the global corrective wave B as a down
triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The sub-waves W], [Y], and [X] are
simple zigzags. The first linking wave [X] is an upward double zigzag
(W)-(X)-(Y). The price is now declining in the final zigzag [Z] marked
with the sub-waves (A)-(B)-(C). The impulse wave (A) has completed, and
there is now unfolding the (B) correction. Let us study the structure of
the most recent section of the EOS price chart in more detail on the
eight-our chart.

The down impulse wave (A) has finished at a level of 2.56. There is now
forming the corrective wave (B), composed of the sub-waves A-B-C. The
price is likely to be rising in the C impulse to a level of 3.21, which
is the previous high made by the A impulse. Next, the market should
reverse and start declining in the impulse wave (C) to the level of
2.56, the low marked by wave (A), and next, it will go down to 1.40, the
low hit by the [Y] wave

### Trading plan for **[EOSUSD][4]** for the week

Buy 2.66, TP 3.21

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ripple analysis**

The XRPUSD market is forming the corrective wave as a triple zigzag. The
first four parts have completed. There is now forming the final, fifth
wave [Z] as a double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y). There is now forming the
linking wave (X). Let us see its structure in more detail in the shorter
timeframe.

After the zigzag-shaped wave (W)completed as a simple, there has started
forming the linking wave (X). It should finish at a level of around
0.277, where the (X) wave will be 50% of the (W) wave, according to the
Fibonacci retracements. Next, the market should be declining to a level
of 0.110 in wave (Y). It is the previous low made by the down wave (Y).

### Trading plan for **[XRPUSD][5]** for the week

Buy 0.246, TP 0.277

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-21092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-21092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus