+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-21"
description = "Swiss franc price forecast September 21 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Swiss franc price forecast September 21 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=10.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-21

2020-09-21

The SNB can’t handle the franc. Forecast for 21.09.2020Dmitri Demidenko

The Swiss National Bank can be in the same position as the Bank of
England was in the 1990s, when George Soros earned $1 billion betting
against the central bank. I suggest tracking the SNB meeting and offer a
plan to trade the CHF.

## Fundamental Swiss franc forecast for this week

An outsider wins when the leader loses. In Forex, this describes the
safe-haven currencies, such as the Swiss franc, the Japanese yen, and
the US dollar. A drop in the global risk appetite usually drives up the
safe-haven demand. If there are global problems, the greenback benefits
most of all, while the demand for the franc results from the regional
factors. With this regard, the second COVID-19 pandemic wave in Europe
and Brexit can suggest a winning investment idea.

The euro-area economic recovery is not that rapid and easy as it was
expected. The euro rally seems to be overstretched for several reasons.
There is a record rise of the coronavirus cases an increase in the
number of hospitalizations, including those aged over 75 in France. The
Spanish government is going to test every 7th inhabitant of Madrid and
the surrounding area. Moreover, there could be a second lockdown in the
UK. The euro strengthening resulted from form the euro-area GDP
recovery. This driver seems to have exhausted. The [EURUSD][1] bulls are
going to exit the trades.

### Dynamics of COVID-19 cases in France and in USA



 _Source_ _: Trading Economics._

The EURUSD rally and the currency interventions of the Swiss National
Bank encouraged the [EURCHF][2] bulls to go ahead in July and August.
However, they are set back in September. The SNB's ability to ease
monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) is limited. The interest rate is already at -0.75%,
which damages the banking system. QE would be a waste of time and money
as due to the insignificant scale of the bond market. The central bank
could only pour the liquidity into the financial system buying foreign
currency. A sure sign of such interventions is the growth of deposits in
Swiss banks.

###  **Dynamics of EURCHF bank deposits**

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Besides, the fact that the SNB is intervening in the Forex market is
signaled by the boost of the central bank’s balance sheet to 848 billion
francs in late August, which is close to the record hit in June.

There is no point in fearing the inevitable. The SNB wants to depreciate
the franc. However, the [EURUSD][1] drop amid the second pandemic wave
in Europe will send the [EURCHF][3] down. Another COVID-19 outbreak is
not the only advantage of the Swissie.

The UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has started a dangerous game trying
to force the EU to make concessions by adopting the domestic market
bill. Investors have almost believed that the pound will drop to $1.2.
However, Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission,
said that the EU-UK trade deal was still possible, sending the pound up
above $1.29. Franc is usually responsive to the deterioration of the
political environment in Europe. The drop in the [GBPCHF][4] encouraged
the [EURCHF][2] bears.

### [EURCHF][2] trading plan for this week

In addition to the worse epidemiological situation in Europe and Brexit,
there is the turmoil in the US stock indexes ahead of the presidential
election. So, it makes sense to sell the [EURCHF][2] with targets at
1.07 and 1.065.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of EURCHF in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURCHF&returnUrl=true
   3. EURCHF/
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPCHF&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=the-snb-cant-handle-the-franc-forecast-for-21092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=the-snb-cant-handle-the-franc-forecast-for-21092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus