+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-21"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (21 September 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (21 September 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-21

2020-09-21

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 21.09.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The euro middle-term uptrend continues. The trend key support in the
price zone [1.1811 – 1.1791]. Gold is trading under the resistance in a
longer timeframe. Technically, the middle-term trend is down.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Last week, the oil price has reached the resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67
– 40.92]. The middle-term trend is up. The price is growing from the
trend key support at [37.34 – 36.72].

If buyers break out TZ5, the next growth target will be TZ 6 [49.17 –
48.42]. Otherwise, the trend border can be retested.

Since September 17, there have been operating new CME Group margin
requirements for oil futures. All zones, drawn form the price extremes,
should be rearranged since September 17 according to the new margin.

The short-term oil trend is up. The growth target is Target Zone [42.85
- 42.23].

The price is being corrected getting close to the strong support
Additional Zone [40.10 – 39.96]. After the zone is tested, we shall
enter buy trades according to the pattern.

If AZ is broken out, the correction will continue down to Intermediary
Zone [38.72 — 38.45].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in the zone of [40.10 - 38.45]. TakeProfit:
Target Zone [42.85 - 42.23]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

In the medium-chart, gold is trading under the resistance. Technically,
the middle-term gold trend is down. I recommend holding sell trades
entered in the resistance zone or entering new ones at the current
levels according to the patterns. Targets are the support level of
1902.9, the support level of 1862.3.

The short-term gold trend is down. The trend target is Target Zone
[1899.4 – 1890.1]. The key resistance [1957.7 – 1953.0] hasn’t been
broken out.

There is a double top sell pattern in the chart. I recommend short
trades according to the pattern. One could enter sell trades at the
current levels with a stop loss at 1966.5.

It will be relevant to buy gold when the trend turns up. It will occur
if trades break out IZ and the US session closes the price above in the
next few days.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1957.7 - 1953.0].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1899.4 - 1890.1]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro middle-term trend continues. The trend key support in the zone
of [1.1811 – 1.1791]. Until the price breaks out the zone downside, the
look for a pattern to open middle-term buy positions with the target at
the high of September.

Once the US session closes the price below Target Zone [1.1811 –
1.1791], we shall start selling the euro with the target at the lower
Target Zone 2 [1.1611 — 1.1591].

Last Thursday and Friday, traders were trying to break out the
resistance of the short-term downtrend [1.1847 - 1.1837]. They failed.
Both times, the US session closed the price within the margin zone.

Therefore, the trend is down today. To enter sell trades, I recommend
expecting the price to return under the zone and break through the
Friday’s low with consolidation below. If so, there will be a double
bottom pattern. We shall sell the EURUSD according to this pattern.

An alternative scenario to buy the euro versus the dollar. The price
breaks out Intermediary Zone and the US session closes above. We shall
consider buy trades on the retest with the target at the upper Target
Zone [1.1957 — 1.1937].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1847 - 1.1837].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1717 - 1.1697]. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-21092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-21092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus