+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-21"
description = "US dollar price forecast September 21 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast September 21 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-09-21

2020-09-21

What will stop the euro? Forecast for 21.09.20Dmitri Demidenko

Middle-term fundamental analysis. Money is going to Europe. Isn’t it too
early?

Following a short correction, the [EURUSD][1] pair is about to resume
the uptrend. The euro bulls are going ahead. I suggest monitoring the
market and offer a [EURUSD][1] trading plan for this week.

## Fundamental euro forecast for this week

If you can’t go on holiday abroad, you can buy a new laptop. The
pandemic has transformed international trade from a brake on the global
economy into a key driver of its growth. In 2019, due to Donald Trump’s
protectionism, the volume of trade between countries was shrinking,
which slowed down the global GDP. In 2020, the export-led regions, which
were the outsiders, have become the leaders, as well as their local
currencies. Over the past 6 months, the [EURUSD][1] pair has been 6.5%
up, also because of the international trade growth. The exports share in
the euro-area GDP is more than 40%. In the USA, exports account for less
than 20% of the GDP.

According to Markit's research, new export orders were growing in 14 of
38 economies, compared with just four in June.  The Kiel Institute for
the World Economy says trade world-wide is rebounding much more quickly
this year than it did after the previous global crisis. The export-led
economies, including China, South Korea, and Germany, perform better
than others. The pandemic has made China a particularly successful one,
whose share in global exports jumped to 18% in April and then dropped
slightly in July to 15.9%. This fact has been one of the reasons for the
yuan strengthening. A rise in the yuan’s values usually means the euro
growth as well.

###  **Dynamics of the yuan and the euro**

 __

_Source_ _: Trading Economics_

In addition to the global trade rebound, the [EURUSD][1] bulls are
supported by portfolio investments. Because of the huge fiscal stimulus
in the US, the volume of deposits of the population in commercial banks
increased sharply. Commercial banks do not want to increase the volume
of lending amid the high probability of bankruptcy. So, where one should
invest? In bonds! Since the end of February, their volume on balance
sheets has increased by $ 250 billion, which has pressed down the
Treasury yields and weakened the US dollar. The USD index has lost about
5% in the June-September period, and the current quarter is going to be
the worst one for the dollar since 2010.

### Dynamics of the USD

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The process could accelerate amid the portfolio rebalancing at the end
of the quarter. At this time, asset managers often close the positions
on the rapidly growing securities reinvesting the funds into lagging
equities. It could result in the growing demand for the underperforming
share markets of Australia and the UK, sending up the AUD and the GBP
versus the USD.

Therefore, international trade and investment capitals support the
[EURUSD][1] bulls but bears also have some benefits. If exports become
the key driver of the economic rebound, the ECB must be willing to
restrain the euro appreciation. The number of COVID-19 cases in France
has reached its highest level since the start of the pandemic, and the
UK is considering another lockdown. And so, European currencies may not
continue rallying up.

### [EURUSD][1] trading plan for this week

The second pandemic wave and the ECB willingness to set back the euro
bulls increase the risk of the [EURUSD][1] middle-term consolidation in
the range of 1.17-1.2. The breakout of the resistances at 1.188 and
1.191 may send the euro up close to $1.2. However, I don't recommend
buying and holding the pair for too long.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][2]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][3] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=what-will-stop-the-euro-forecast-for-210920&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   3. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=what-will-stop-the-euro-forecast-for-210920&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus