+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-05"
description = "Elliot wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week October 5-9 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Elliot wave cryptocurrency analysis for the week October 5-9 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-05

2020-10-05

Medium-term forecast for five cryptocurrencies as of 05.10.2020Roman
Onegin

I welcome my readers!

I have prepared a medium-term cryptocurrency forecast based on Elliott
wave analysis of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS, and Ripple. I offer
trading signals for each cryptocurrency pair.

The cryptocurrencies being analyzed are forming the bullish impulse
waves at the time of writing. Therefore, I recommend entering long
trades with the target profits at the indicated levels.

The article covers the following subjects:

##  **Elliott wave Bitcoin analysis**

 ****

The BTCUSD market continues forming long-term correction 4 as a double
zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]. The upward linking wave [X] is now unfolding, it is
composed of the sub-waves (W)-(X)-(Y). After the tow sub-waves (W)-(X),
the price has started rising in the final wave (Y). Let us see its
structure in more detail in the eight-hour timeframe.

Wave (Y) is must complete as a simple ascending zigzag A-B-C. The market
finished forming the impulse wave A. Next, the corrective wave B
started. The B correction must complete as a double zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y].
The market should continue rising to a level of 11315, where the entire
linking wave [X] should finish. Next, the price should be declining in
the final wave [Y] towards the previous low, made by wave (a).

### Trading plan for [BTCUSD][1] for the week

Buy 10641.00, TP 11315.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ethereum analysis**

 ****

In the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) timeframe, the Ethereum price is rising in the upward
linking wave [X], which is unfolding as a triple zigzag
(W)-(X)-(Y)-(X)-(Z). After the zigzag-shaped wave (Y) finished, the
price has started declining in the linking wave (X) that should complete
as a simple zigzag A-B-C. The A impulse and the B correction are likely
to have completed. The five-wave impulse C should be developing. Let us
see its structure in a shorter timeframe.

After the upward correction B finished, the price has turned down and
started declining. The market must have started forming the beginning of
the C impulse. The approximate trajectory of the future price movement
is outlined in the chart. The market should be rising in correction [2]
towards a level of 370.00. Next, the market will go down in impulse [3].
Following a short correction up in correction [4], the price will
continue declining in wave [5].

### Trading plan **[ETHUSD][2] **for the week

Buy 350.06, TP 370.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Litecoin analysis**

The LTCUSD market continues following the long-term correction B, which
is unfolding as a triple zigzag composed of five sub-waves
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The most recent section of the chart displays the
structure of the final wave [Z], which is forming as a simple zigzag
(A)-(B)-(C). The impulse wave (A) and the corrective wave (B) have
completed. There is now developing the impulse wave (C). Let us see its
structure in more detail.

The (C) impulse is composed of five motive sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. The two
impulse sub-waves 1 and 3 have completed, as well as the corrective wave
2. The price is now rising in the corrective wave 4 that could end as a
standard zigzag [a]-[b]-[c]. This correction could finish at a level of
51.00. Next, the price will continue declining in wave 5, as it is
outlined in the chart.

### Trading plan for **[LTCUSD][3]**  for the week

Buy 46.20, TP 51.00

* * *

##  **Elliott wave EOS analysis**

 ****

Like in the previous trading weeks, the EOS continues moving down in the
global corrective wave B, which is unfolding as a triple zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The first four parts of this pattern have
completed, and the down wave [Z] is unfolding as a simple zigzag
(A)-(B)-(C). Let us see the most recent chart section on the eight-hour
timeframe.

The impulse wave (A) has finished in the simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). The
market is now rising in the corrective wave (B), which may end as a
simple zigzag A-B-C. The market should be rising to a level of 2.80 in
the C impulse. Next, the price should be declining within the (C)
impulse to a level of 1.40. This level is the previous low made by wave
[Y].

### Trading plan for **[EOSUSD][4]** for the week

Buy 2.49, TP 2.80

* * *

##  **Elliott wave Ripple analysis**

The Ripple market is forming the triple down zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z].
There have completed four parts out of five. Wave [Z] is now developing.
The [Z} wave may complete as a simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). The (B)
correction is now unfolding. Let see this zigzag in more detail in the
eight-hour timeframe.

The (A) wave, composed of the sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5, has completed as a
leading diagonal. The market has started rising in the (B) correction.
Over the next few days, the market should continue moving up in the
impulse wave C to a level of 0.266, where the entire correction (B) will
reach the 38.2% Fibonacci level of the impulse wave (A). Next, wave (С)
should drive the price down towards the previous low made by the zigzag-
shaped wave (Y).

### Trading plan for **[XRPUSD][5]** for the week

Buy 0.247, TP 0.266

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-05102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-five-cryptocurrencies-as-of-05102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus