+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-05"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (5 October 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (5 October 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=21.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-05

2020-10-05

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 05.10.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

Last week, oil prices dropped to the key support of the medium-term
uptrend [37.34 — 36.72].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Last week, oil prices dropped to the key support of the medium-term
uptrend [37.34 — 36.72]. The price hasn’t broken out the zone yet. I
suggest looking for oil purchases according to the pattern with the
targets at the highs of August and September.

It will be relevant to sell oil if the key support is broken out and the
price consolidates below. In this case, the target will be Target Zone 2
[31.14 — 30.52].

Last week, the short-term oil trend turned down. The price broke out
Intermediary Zone [38.72 – 38.45] and closed below at the US trade
session.

It is relevant to sell oil with the target at the lower Target Zone
[35.97 – 35.42]. Enter short trades in the zone of [38.45 – 39.53].

It is not relevant to buy oil now. We shall buy when the trend turns up
via the breakout of level 39.53.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Sell acording ot the pattern in the zone of [38.45 - 39.53]. TakeProfit:
Target Zone [35.97 - 35.42]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold price was testing the zone of good sell prices in the downtrend
1922.4 – 1913.1] last week. After the test, there appeared the Price
Action signal Pin-bar with confirmation. We should have opened positions
according to the pattern, or with the limit order to sell. I recommend
hodling the stop loss at the high of last week, or above the level of
1922.5. The sell target is Target Zone 2 [1829.4 — 1820.1].

Let us analyze the short-term chart. The US trade session on October 1
closed a little higher than Intermediary Zone [1900.1 - 1895.4]. The
price is now trading below the resistance again.

Has the short-term gold trend turned up or not? We shall see a clue
soon.

I do not recommend entering gold purchases now, a strong medium-term
resistance IZ is a little higher. I recommend monitoring the market
situation in the short-term chart and holding middle-term sell trades.

If the price breaks through Friday’s low and consolidates below, there
will be a false breakout pattern to sell. If so, we can enter trades in
the short-term downtrend, confirming the idea of the downtrend
continuation.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Hold down medium-term sell trades entered in the zone of [1922.4 -
1913.1]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [1829.4 - 1820.1]. StopLoss: 1935.0.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

The euro middle-term downtrend continues. The price is now being
corrected up. It is trading under the resistance level of 1.1752. The
price hasn’t broken it out, so, expect a sell pattern.

If the price breaks out the resistance, there will be a deeper
correction up to the trend key resistance [1.1832 — 1.1812].

Let us analyze the shorter timeframe. The previous purchases entered in
Additional Zone [1.1705 - 1.1700] worked out only by half. The local
high was broken through, but the price hasn’t reached Target Zone
[1.1832 – 1.1812].

Last Friday, there was another correction and the price retested the new
Additional Zone [1.1719 – 1.1714]. I suggest entering purchases in the
zone. We need a buy pattern to enter trades. The targets will at the
local high and in Target Zone [1.1832 — 1.1812].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy acording ot the pattern in the zone of [1.1719 - 1.1659].
TakeProfit: 1.1767, Target Zone [1.1832 - 1.1812]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-05102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-05102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus