+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-04"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 4, 2020

May 4, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.05.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude –** **oil** ****

Oil traders turned the middle-term trend up. The upside target is now at
Target Zone 2 [19.17 – 18.42]. The trend key support moves to the zone
of [6.77 - 5.77].

I recommend entering purchases on the correction into the broken-out
Target Zone [11.67 - 10.92].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.05.2020][1]

The local oil short-term trend is up. Last week, the price broke out the
resistance Gold Zone [15.04 - 14.67]. There has also worked out the main
scenario to buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [8.49 –
8.07].

Now, the new target for long trades is Target Zone 2 [19.17 – 18.42]. I
recommend entering trades according to the pattern on the correction
either in Additional Zone [14.27 – 14.02] or Intermediary Zone [11.77 —
11.27].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.05.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [14.27 - 14.02]. TakeProfit: 16.65, Target Zone 2 [19.17 - 18.42]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [11.77 - 11.27]. TakeProfit: 16.65, Target Zone 2 [19.17 - 18.42]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

Gold middle-term uptrend continues, despite a deep correction down last
week. There is a false breakout pattern in the support zone [1697.2 –
1691.2]. I recommend entering new gold purchases as close to the support
as possible, the upside target will be in Target Zone 5 [1757.2 —
1751.2].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.05.2020][4]

Let us switch to the shorter timeframe. There also continues the local
uptrend, the major upside target is to reach the resistance Target Zone
[1760.0 – 1750.8].

Last week, traders were testing the key support of the trend [1692.8 –
1688.2]. The price didn’t break the zone out. On Friday, the price was
again within the zone, and the US session closed the price well above
the support.

Therefore, it is relevant to enter new gold buy trades today or hold the
existing ones up to the target in the upper TZ.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.05.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

Buy/hold up buy trades entered in Intermediary Zone [1692.8 - 1688.2].
TakeProfit: Target Zone [1760.0 - 1750.8]. StopLoss: 1680.0.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EUR/USD price consolidated above the key resistance of the middle-
term downtrend [1.0927 – 1.0909] last Friday. According to the margin
zones methodology, the medium-trend reversed up, and the target is
Target Zone 2 [1.1109 — 1.1091].

We can draw the key support to the uptrend from the local high of last
week, the key support is in the zone of [1.0835 – 1.0817]. Therefore, it
will be relevant to buy the euro according to the pattern on the price
correction down to the support zone.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.05.2020][7]

In the shorter timeframe, the price broke out Target Zone [1.0927 -
1.0909] and reached Gold Zone [1.1009 – 1.1000]. The price started
correction down from Gold Zone, and it has now reached the key support
of the short-term uptrend.

Intermediary Zone is in the price range of [1.0926 - 1.0917]. The price
has tested the zone at the Asian session, so, expect the retest on the
European session and enter buy trades according to the pattern.

It will be relevant to sell the euro, the price should break out
Intermediary Zone and consolidate below at the US session. In this case,
the short-term trend will reverse down, and we shall sell the EURUSD
with the target at Target Zone [1.0835 — 1.0817].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.05.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.0926 - 1.0917].
TakeProfit: 1.1016. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 04.05.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_040520_1.png?w=30&s=d85dc0dc354966a717f2c661f9536e3b
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_040520_2.png?w=30&s=d00e42b0214dab02f48a888406962e90
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_040520_1.png?w=30&s=380041bb8c72cb8f754667494c432a43
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_040520_2.png?w=30&s=c11e082ae7b31442bbc719868ed94682
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_040520_1.png?w=30&s=c92ea02703fb835fe99bc29446e199f2
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_040520_2.png?w=30&s=8a78214594aaee7bbd81d4587c6f9985
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-04052020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-04052020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/wti.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=8cb3d68862944580bf8097d1cd0a574d