+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-04"
description = "AUD/USD forecast for 04.04.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "AUD/USD forecast for 04.04.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 4, 2020

May 4, 2020

Aussie smells the problemsDmitri Demidenko

## A new round of trade wars may break the plans of the AUD/USD bulls

Has the idea of a faster recovery of China’s economy than that of the
USA and Europe, suggesting one should bet on the currencies of the
counties having close trade links with China, failed? In [late March][1]
and [early April][2], I strongly recommended buying the Australian
dollar despite the opinion of the majority that suggested a gloomy
outlook for the Australian economy and a further easing of the RBA’s
ultra-easy monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). Since then, the [AUD/USD][3] pair has risen
by more than 6 figures. However, Trump’s attacks against China have
broken the plans of the AUD buyers.

The US president obviously wants to win the upcoming presidential
election in November, however, the recession and the crash in the stock
market create strong barriers. If the S&P 500 trend has reversed up amid
joint efforts of the Fed and the US administration, the V-shaped
recovery of the US GDP could hardly be expected. Trump urgently needed
to find someone to put the blame on, and he targeted China. The
escalation of the US-China trade war will not only weigh on the global
trade that is already rather weak, but it will also press down China’s
economy and the yuan, which China’s government is struggling to
stabilize now. The yuan’s drop amid the possibility of new import
tariffs imposed by the USA send the [AUD/USD][3] down.

 **Dynamics is AUD/USD and USD/CNY**

![LiteForex: AUD/USD forecast for 04.04.2020][4]

 _Source: Trading Economics_

Yes, the Aussie looks vulnerable form the fundamental point of view.
According to Bloomberg, there should be three consecutive quarters of
declining gross domestic product, with Australia’s economy contracting
by 9% from the fourth quarter of 2019, before a gradual recovery begins
in the fourth quarter of 2020 (6% in 2020). It shouldn’t reach pre-
outbreak levels of activity until the second half of 2022. Since
December 2019, the number of unemployed Australians increased by 800,000
to 1.3 million-1.6 million. This is likely to result in the unemployment
rate increase from 5.2% to 11% in the next few months. Such a level of
unemployment was recorded during the last economic recession in the
early 1990s.

 **Dynamics of Australia’s GDP**

![LiteForex: AUD/USD forecast for 04.04.2020][5]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

However, the same situation is in most countries fighting with the
coronavirus outbreak, and Australia’s fiscal stimulus (about 16% of GDP)
is one of the biggest in the world, which suggests the economy’s
rebound. The RBA didn’t take such aggressive measures as the Fed, which
had launched the unlimited QE. It targeted the yield curve, like the
Bank of Japan, which allowed it to stop buying out assets in the sixth
week (the total purchase volume is just about AU$50 billion).

To sum up all the above, the hopes for the V-shaped recovery of China's
economy, a huge fiscal stimulus, and a modest expansion of the RBA’s
balance sheet pushed the [AUD/USD][3] up to its seven-week highs.
However, the potential escalation of the US-China trade war changed the
balance of power in the currency pair. If Donald Trump follows through
the threats and starts actions, the [AUD/USD][3] should be falling
deeper if the support at 0.635 is broken out. Otherwise, if the threat
is not fulfilled, my [forecast][2] suggesting the Aussie’s growth to
$0.675 and $0.69 should come true.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of AUDUSD in real time mode

![Aussie smells the problems][8]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/aussie-meets-qe/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/will-the-aussie-get-the-better-of-bears/
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/audusd-usdcny-04-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=7b9e843d2b794b6eac46c0af30874a9e
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/australia-gdp-04-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=42325126b0a186eba7f697aff49b643f
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=aussie-smells-the-problems&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=aussie-smells-the-problems&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-audusd-04-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=8f3536c2c7ff32271aace287dd1a05ff