+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-04"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 04.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 04.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 4, 2020

May 4, 2020

Dollar messed things up!Dmitri Demidenko

## The trade war escalation isn’t the good [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) for the EUR/USD bulls

The worst that the markets, struggling with the pandemic fallout, may
face is a new round of the US-China trade war. Donald Trump claims that
there is evidence the COVID-19 originated in a Chinese laboratory, and
so he is willing to impose new tariffs against China in revenge for the
lives of tens of thousands of Americans. This has triggered a new sell-
off in the global stock markets. TheS&P 500 lost all its weekly gains in
a few hours, which has strengthened the greenback.

Will the US stock market continue rising May at the same pace as it did
in April? I don’t think so. First, the US stocks featured the best rise
in April since 1987, and it will be difficult to repeat such a success.
Second, although the reopening of the US economy is a good piece of
[news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/), the US economic data are horrible, as well as the corporate
reports. Besides, there may start a new round of the US-China trade war.

The forecasts for ISM report on the US services PMI, euro-area retail
sales, and China’s foreign trade look gloomy. And the US jobs report is
also weak. According to the analysts polled by the Wall Street Journal,
the US unemployment rate will surge to 16.1% in April, which is much
higher than the previous high at 10.8% recorded in 1982. US employment
should lose 22 million jobs. The previous worst drop of 1.96 million in
September 1945 is far below. After the US employment had been growing
for 113 consecutive months, the country faced a disaster. Will the US
stocks remain strong?

###  **Dynamics of US payrolls and unemployment**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 04.05.2020][1]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Week jobs market suggests the US economy will hardly experience a
V-shaped recovery in 2020. The [S&P 500][2] rolled down even though
Donald Trump announced a payroll tax cut would be necessary. The
Americans will benefit from this fiscal stimulus only when they are back
to work, but the quarantine leave may last for a long time.

###  **Dynamics of US unemployment and US GDP**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 04.05.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

A new round of the US-China trade war may also mess the things up for
the buyers of the US stocks. In 2018, Donald Trump attacked China at the
right time, as the US economy was strong, supported by the tax reform,
and could compensate the import tariffs. But how will it perform now?
The US recovery can well be W-shaped, instead of a V-shaped to U-shaped
rebound.

The crash of the US stock indexes resulted in a lower global risk
appetite that will support the US dollar. The euro will have a hard week
through May 8. There will be published the reports on the euro-area
retail sales, the EC forecasts for European GDP, inflation, and
unemployment. There will also be announced the decision of German’s
Federal Constitutional Court on the legacy of the ECB QE. Besides,
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s still expect the ECB to boost the QE pace and change the list
of assets to purchase. The [EUR/USD][4] should continue falling if the
price breaks through the supports at 1.0935 and 1.092.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar messed things up!][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/uneployment-payrolls-usa-04-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=ae03d8cc7d1e747ff12bbc0fd1dc0328
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/uneployment-gdp-usa-04-05-02.jpg?w=30&s=e98098867fe8561f3b9293771d1a1f14
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=doll-messed-things-up&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=doll-messed-things-up&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-04-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=d66965d5339130ab135ea3714d479401