+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-04"
description = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 4, 2020

May 4, 2020

Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysisRoman Onegin

## Forecast for BTCUSD, LTCUSD, ETHUSD, EOSUSD, XRPUSD pairs

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[BTCUSD][1]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][2]**

The [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) BTCUSD price chart displays the structure of a large
corrective wave 4 that is composed of the sub-waves [W]-[X]-[Y]. The [W]
zigzag and the bullish linking wave [X] have completed. The market is
now following wave [Y] that is likely to be a double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y).
Let us see the structure of wave (Y) in more detail in a shorter
timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][3]

The (Y) wave currently unfolding should be a simple zigzag A-B-C. The
corrective wave B may have completed. It is a triple zigzag
[w]-[x]-[y]-[x]-[z]. The market is now at an early stage of the final
impulse wave C. Therefore, the price should be moving down in the new
downtrend in the next few weeks.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[ETHUSD][4]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][5]**

There continues forming the global down triple zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. After the second bullish linking wave [X] completed
as a plain zigzag (A)-(B)-(C), the price has started declining in the
final motive wave [Z]. Wave [Z] is composed of three legs, impulse (A),
correction (B), and the impulse wave (C), which is yet developing. Let
see the most recent part of the chart in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][6]

The impulse wave (C) consists of five sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. The upward
corrective wave 4 has recently completed as a triple zigzag. After this
correction completed, the market has turned down and started following
the initial part of the bear impulse wave 5, which is a five-wave
impulse. This impulse way complete at a level around 98.67 that is the
low made by the previous impulse wave 3.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[LTCUSD][7]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][8]**

The LTCUSD market is also developing a global triple zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. There is now forming the final motive wave [Z] as a
simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). Let us see the chart structure in more detail
in the eight-hour timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][9]

The upward corrective wave (B) has recently completed as a double zigzag
W-X-Y within the larger simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). After that, there has
started unfolding the impulse wave (C) with a deep correction 4 that is
likely to have completed with all its sub-waves [w]-[x]-[y]-[x]-[z]. The
price should be declining in wave 5 towards a level of 24.17 in the next
few weeks. This level is the previous low made by impulse 3.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[EOSUSD][10]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][11]**

The chart displays the structure of the long-term corrective wave B that
is unfolding as a simple zigzag [A]-[B]-[C]. After the sub-wave [A] and
[B] completed, where [A] is an impulse, and [B] is a double zigzag, the
price has started gradually declining in the bear impulse wave [C]. The
[C] wave is likely to be finishing. Let us see the chart structure in
more detail in the H8 timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][12]

The [C] wave is composed of five sub-waves 1-2-3-4-5. THE deep
correction 4 has recently finished as a triple zigzag
[w]-[x]-[y]-[x]-[z]. After that, the market has started declining in the
first leg of wave 5. The price is likely to be declining for some time
towards the previous low at 1.388, which was created by the bear impulse
wave 3.

* * *

###  **Wave analysis for[XRPUSD][13]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][14]**

The XRPUSD situation is similar to the above one. There is developing
the corrective wave B as a triple down zigzag. The first four parts of
this triple zigzag have completed, and there is developing the bear wave
[Z] as a simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). Let us see the chart structure in
more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][15]

In the down zigzag [Z] completed as a horizontal contracting triangle
(B). After that, the price has started declining in the final impulse
(C). The long-term correction 4 may have completed not long ago.
Therefore, the price should be declining in wave 5 towards level 0.109
in the next few weeks. This is the previous low made by impulse wave 3.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][16]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][17] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysis][18]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/04-05-2020X/BTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=e0485b3196548a5bfca0f268e2d5ed8b
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/04-05-2020X/BTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=e96a2bc49b12cad697f4025a4a571613
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/04-05-2020X/ETHUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=136eefa521d98113340c5301f3206fb7
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/04-05-2020X/ETHUSDH8.png?w=30&s=ed695f8521c1c1efde0e5c7fa99e18a9
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/04-05-2020X/LTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=836491ad73e526b28e0f49368ef6a5da
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/04-05-2020X/LTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=12898b318a0856ef55c0d4f3849a9533
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/04-05-2020X/EOSUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=d1cbce7cc51e72f5f6528464392091b7
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/04-05-2020X/EOSUSDH8.png?w=30&s=db307ca7a9c8fe94274b68eb8b37a171
   13. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/04-05-2020X/XRPUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=62b7cdda56986be5b7ff5e7bba63fcd0
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/04-05-2020X/XRPUSDH8.png?w=30&s=c8c5b348325d32760a370384f5e09ab3
   16. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-05-04&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   17. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-05-04&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/1-elliott-waves-weekly-forecast-for-[BTC](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/who-is-the-creator-of-bitcoin/)usd-ethusd-ltcusd-eosusd-xrpusd_1000x545.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1480cfce2406c81b57be8a77076342f1