+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-21"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=5.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 21, 2020

July 21, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.07.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Oil is trading in the middle-term uptrend. The price is now under the
under the strong resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. If it is
broken out, the next growth target will be Target Zone 6 [49.17 –
48.42].

Otherwise, the price will be corrected down to the trend key support
[33.64 — 32.86].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.07.2020][1]

The short-term timeframe indicates the short-term uptrend, whose target
is to break through the June’s high. Last week, there emerged the 1-2-3
pattern to buy. It is now being traded.

For today, I recommend expecting the price to break through June’s high
and look for a sell pattern. It will be relevant to sell when the price
rolls back under the resistance level 41.44.

When the high is broken through, we shall rearrange the support zones.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.07.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today: **

If June’s high is broken through and the price rolls down under the
resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92], sell. TakeProfit: 36.92.
StopLoss: above the high of the false breakout pattern.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold price has broken through the high of July 8. Today, we shall see if
buyers consolidate the price above Target Zone 6 [1817.2 – 1811.2]. If
they do, the next upside target will be Target Zone 7 [1877.2 – 1871.2].
Otherwise, there will emerge a false breakout sell pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.07.2020][4]

In the short-term uptrend, the gold price has broken through the local
high and worked out the pattern to buy in Additional Zone. Buyers are
trying to consolidate the price above the resistance Gold Zone [1812.5 –
1808.0]. If they succeed, the next target will be in Target Zone [1862.8
- 1853.7].

There is also an alternative scenario to trade gold today. It suggests
selling gold in the correction. It will be relevant if sellers hold
level 1818.1 and draw the price down under the resistance. In this case,
we shall sell gold. For entering sell trades, it is better to analyze
the longer timeframe.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.07.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today: **

Sell according to the pattern of the false breakout of July's high.
TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro to dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The euro-dollar is now breaking through the previous local high 1.1424.
If buyers consolidate the price above the level, the next growth target
will be Target Zone 2 [1.1550 - 1.1532].

To enter new middle-term buy trades, expect the correction down to the
trend key support and look for a corresponding pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.07.2020][7]

Yesterday, the EURUSD was corrected down after the test of Gold Zone
[1.1467 – 1.1458]. Following the correction, the price tested Additional
Zone [1.1421 – 1.1417]. I recommended entering buy trades in the zone
with the target to break through the local high. As it is clear from the
chart, the zone has been held and the price has broken through the high.

The price is now being corrected again. The new Additional Zone [1.1423
– 1.1419] has been tested at the Asian session. There is not yet a
pattern to buy the euro. Expect the buy pattern and buy the EURUSD with
the target to break through today’s high.

An alternative scenario suggests expecting until AZ is broken out and
selling with the target in Intermediary Zone [1.1378 – 1.1369]. It will
be trading in the correction opposite the uptrend.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.07.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.1423 - 1.1419]. TakeProfit: 1.1468. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Sell if the price breaks out Additional Zone [1.1423 - 1.1419]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1.1378 - 1.1369]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 21.07.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_210720_1.png?w=30&s=13e2454afe0def085f0c0912b7f4c718
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_210720_2.png?w=30&s=2c9dbb5e33bc51e246161202b5a7cc36
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_210720_1.png?w=30&s=30f8aaa29455b0e9a1074a9b6a0f9082
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_210720_2.png?w=30&s=616e4fe977d8ad886ea284dff892196c
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_210720_1.png?w=30&s=edf907a7020eec66227136e6314398d6
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_210720_2.png?w=30&s=48ba31fc7fab46fe9e88568d7f5e6aa8
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-21072020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-21072020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_55.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=6636cddebdb5ad795f532356d3b5ef8f