+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-21"
description = "Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental factors."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental factors."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 21, 2020

July 21, 2020

Fundamental and technical analysis of ASX200Mikhail Hypov

## Fundamental and technical analysis of ASX200

Today we’re examining Australia’s stock index ASX200. It embraces 200
biggest companies of Australia whose total capitalization exceeds 80% of
the stock market. The specifics of this local market are closely related
to the specifics of the Australian economy. Today we’re going to
forecast  ASX200’s cost, provide its technical and fundamental analyses
and examine its wave structure. We will also compare the index with
other global stock indexes and determine its key levels and actual
scenarios.

By the way, the official name of Australia is the Commonwealth of
Australia, but the unofficial name popular with the Australians
themselves is Land of Oz or just “Oz”. Also, there are many other
nicknames such as:

> New Holland

>

> Straya

>

> the Land Down Under

>

> the Great Southern Land

>

> the Lucky Country

>

> the Sunburnt Country

>

> Ulimaroa

These numerous nicknames can be explained by the fact that Australia
lies far away from the Western world. The big distance and hard access
to its territory made Australia even more attractive and mysterious, and
spread lots of legends and rumours about that faraway Land of Oz.
However, Australia’s location turned out to be beneficial in the current
pandemic circumstances.

![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental
factors.][1]

Epidemiologists would unanimously predict another pandemic wave
worldwide, and it seems to have already started in Australia if you look
at the chart above. But at a closer look, the ratio of Number of deaths
to Number of new Covid cases is less than the one registered during the
first wave. It is a good factor which means that the government and the
population have managed to set up some efficient ways of combatting the
disease. The latest statistics on coronavirus are rather encouraging: a
large scale lockdown may not be necessary and the Australian economy may
avoid another stress test.  However, besides important domestic factors,
there are some external ones that may affect the behaviours of indexes.
The Australian economy’s peculiarities have already been discussed in
one of my previous [articles][2]. I will only remind you that the
economy of Australia is based on resources. This fact is clearly
reflected in the composition of the [ASX200][3] index. Almost 20% of the
companies are directly connected with production of raw materials and
they account for 20% of capitalisation as of 1 June 2020 according to
[asx200list.com][4]. Another important factor which influences the state
of the index is macroeconomic stats from Far East and South Asia.  In
the first place, I mean China and Hong Kong that import 40% of
Australia’s production.

Fundamental surprises aren’t expected either. Since China remains the
only country that will keep its GDP growth in the positive zone
according to IMF, the general forecast is positive. But the Chinese
government itself holds off making an economic forecast for the second
half of 2020, which means China fears the consequences of the second
coronavirus wave.

After all, Chinese macroeconomic figures may be doubtful considering the
alleged cover-up of the epidemiological situation on the eve of the
global pandemic.  Those rumours are still being discussed by the US
government and Donald Trump personally. Political engineers say that
confrontation with China will be at the top of the agenda in the
upcoming electoral cycle. The US presidential election scheduled for 3
November 2020, we are expecting 3 tense months where Trump may worsen
the US-China relations with a couple of tweets. Obviously, the
Australian market is sensitive to that confrontation and every new round
may hit hard the sentiment of the Australian stock market.

###  **Global technical analysis of ASX200 index**

Now that we’ve examined the fundamental factors let’s have a look at the
technical component. I don’t know why but the index ticker is XJO. If
you’re a LiteForex trader, you will easily find the index as
[ASX200][3]. As usual, we will check the global [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) of the index
movement first.

![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental
factors.][5]

It’s displayed in the 12-month chart above. At the macro-level, we see a
stable bullish trend - the orange trade range - that even the current
crisis failed to break. It’s a good factor for a future long-term
growth. However, the current slump broke a local bullish trend which
started in 2009. The same situation concerns any other stock index, but
it’s a bad sign from the point of view of technical
analysis.![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental
factors.][6]

The ultimate candlestick’s long shadow gives rise to a movement in the
area of 4,600-4,700. So technically, nothing can prevent an attempt to
return to the previous minimums at this macro-level.

###  **Analysis of ASX 200 G35**

![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental
factors.][7]

If we [express][8] the ASX200 index in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of the 1971 Gold standard,
the situation looks sad: we can observe a regular fall instead of a
growing trend. It indicates the fatal depreciation of the stock against
gold.  The ultimate candlestick in the 6-month chart above points to the
continuing downtrend of  [ASX200 ][3] relative to the gold standard.
Thus, the index shouldn’t be expected to grow on the “long” money of
institutional [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s in the nearest time. This situation rather
indicates a speculative nature of the index price’s recovery and
confirms the fear of a probable future correction.

###  **ASX200, S &P500 and Shanghai Composite: correlation analysis**

To analyse those fears thoroughly, we will compare the evolution of the
[ASX200][3] index with S&P500 and Shanghai Composite.

![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental
factors.][9]

As we see in the chart above, ASX200 and S&P500 fell at the same time
and almost to the same depth, but the Australian index is far behind.

![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental
factors.][10]

Correlation analysis shows that SPX is outrunning XJO on growing waves.
Those green-circled areas coincide with the deepest troughs marked by
the correlation indicator below. In the rest of cases these indexes’
movements are almost identical. The Australian index’s current deviation
from SPX is about 12% in general.

Fundamentally, such a big gap may be due to the difference between
economic stimuli in the countries. Trump literally flooded the stock
market with money, having printed trillions of dollars to save the
national economy. Another factor that may cause such a big difference is
markets’ speculative nature. S&P500 is obviously more popular with
private [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s than ASX200. Many experts continue pointing to the
fact that such a fast pace of retracements is groundless. It contradicts
macro-economic multipliers and the real state of economy. This concerns
NASDAQ 100 in particular.

![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental
factors.][11]

The NDX index broke out the [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) high of the pre-crisis epoch in
June and since then has been growing.  This situation means that private
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s have been buying the idea of a higher demand for the IT
sector’ s production amidst global crisis and quarantine. But the thing
is, the digital economy is linked to the real sector.  While large
investment funds are hedging risks and turning to treasuries and gold,
the money of an average housewife from New Jersey continues supporting
Tesla and Amazon. ![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main
fundamental factors.][12]

Now let’s compare ASX200 with China’s main stock index Shanghai
Composite (SHCOMP). We see that SHCOMP began falling much earlier, but
the fall wasn’t as deep. Thus, the recovery period was flatter than the
Australian index’ one.

There are two interesting facts about this chart:

  1. There’s no correlation between these two indexes, which is good for portfolio diversification.
  2. The sharp growth of SHCOMP, green-circled in the chart above, is linked to the optimistic macro-economic statistics published by China’s government at the end of Q2.

We see that ASX200 paid no attention to the Chinese index’s first wave
of fall amidst the beginning of the pandemic and its latest growth wave.
This fact indicates that the two indexes’ evolutions aren’t correlated
even if China has a big influence of the Australian economy as a
consumer of 40% of its production. Thus, we can make an intermediate
conclusion that even Australia’s favourable geopolitical situation, with
the US being an ally and China being a big business partner, can’t make
ASX200 a protective tool because of the US-China confrontation. Because
of a high correlation with S&P500, ASX200 is very likely to catch up
with the US index.  Let’s move to technical analysis to find out how
that will be possible.

###  **Technical analysis**![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast.
Main fundamental factors.][13]

Have a look at global cycles in the chart above. We see a typical 5-wave
impulse with a long wave 5. The extension of wave 5 is confirmed by
Robert Prechter’s ratio of 38.2/61.8. If we proceed with that approach,
we can suggest 2 various scenarios for ASX200.

###  **Scenario no 1**

### ![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental
factors.][14]

The first scenario is displayed in the chart above. We see a correction
in the form of zigzag ABC with irregular wave C. ![LiteForex: ASX200:
Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental factors.][15]

The main requirement is that wave C drops below 0.382 of wave B. This
requirement has been observed in the chart above.![LiteForex: ASX200:
Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental factors.][16]

Based on this scenario, we expect that a new impulse pattern should
start developing after the zigzag. In the chart above, the second wave
of that impulse dropped below 0.232 of the first wave. This fact doesn’t
comply with wave ratios, so we can’t say that a new impulse started
developing. So, this scenario didn’t prove to be successful.

###  **Scenario no 2**

### ![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental
factors.][17]

In the second scenario, we see an irregular correction ABC (3-3-5) in
the chart above. It’s called “irregular” because wave (B) crosses the
tops of wave 5 and updates the [historical](https://www.fintechee.com/services/historical-data-for-forex/) maximum. The peak of wave 5 is
marked with a red dotted line at 6,851 in the chart above. This wave
patten is complicated because wave (C) may drop below wave (A) or fail
to update minimums, i.e. form as a triangular correction. The main
requirement is that wave C drops below 0.382 of wave (B).![LiteForex:
ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental factors.][18]

The chart above shows that requirement was observed when the first sub-
wave A formed. The global bullish trend wasn’t broken, though. So, we
don’t have any current reason to believe that wave (С) of the super
cycle will fall below wave (A) (check the blue wave pattern). So, the
correction in wave (C) will most likely continue as triangle ABCDE  -
the crimson pattern - with the lower edge located at the level of the
global trend. As nothing contradicts the second scenario, we may go more
into details.

###  **Details of Scenario no 2**

### ![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental
factors.][19]

The chart above confirms directly this scenario through MACD divergence
marked with thick green lines.![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and
forecast. Main fundamental factors.][20]

In the monthly chart above, 0.382 fib (green level) of wave (B) of the
super cycle (blue pattern) supports bulls and coincides with the closing
level of the candlesticks in the latest fall wave.![LiteForex: ASX200:
Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental factors.][21]

That level also coincides with support level S3 of the Pivot point
indicator. Most likely, a future correction won’t drop below that level
or there will be a short-term breakout with a fast pullback to that
level at around 5,100 points. So, zigzag of wave (A) - light green
pattern - is expected to have an irregular wave C too.![LiteForex:
ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental factors.][22]

As wave C must cross 0.382 fibonacci of wave B and we know the start
point of wave B, we may extrapolate a projection and suppose that the
peak of this wave will be located in the area of 6,100 – 6,300. Since
the index is in that area at the moment, the waves may be expected to
change quite soon. Numerous resistance levels are accumulated at
6,300-6,500:

  1. Pivot level (orange segment) of the Pivot point indicator
  2. Closing level of peak of August 2018 (green-circled)
  3. The lower limit of the tolerance level at 6,500 of TM candlestick projection. According to TM theory, the price isn’t supposed to return to the tolerance zone, marked with a violet rectangle in the chart, because the lower limit of the projection was broken.

![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental
factors.][23]

As we suppose that ABC will be a zigzag with an irregular wave C, this
pattern will look like waves 3-5-3. We see that wave (b) of the light
green pattern has almost formed 5 waves, so the room for growth is
limited by both price and time. As there are no clear reversal signals,
I may assume the price may grow to 6,300 points in the area where the
above mentioned resistance levels accumulated.

###  **Trading plan**

### ![LiteForex: ASX200: Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental
factors.][24]

The strongest sign of the local bullish trend’s reversal and move to
wave (c) will be a breakout of the trend blue line of the bullish
channel. Short positions can be opened at the level of breakout of
psychological level of 6,000 points with a target at around 5,100 –
5,200. Stop orders should be placed above 6,400.![LiteForex: ASX200:
Analysis and forecast. Main fundamental factors.][25]

The plan is the same for long-term [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s. Considering the index’s
weak dynamics, we may see a long movement within a range of 5,000-6,400
fading into a horizontal triangle. Thus, the wisest approach will be
earning form retracements from the upper and lower limits of the
channel, factoring in the edges of a future pattern. These trading plans
can be realised with [LiteForex][26]. This broker offers low swaps for
carrying trades over or swap-free Islamic accounts with leverage of up
to 1:500.   What’s more, the company is raffling amazing prizes among
its traders to celebrate the [15th anniversary][27]. It’s high time to
join the army of its traders!

 That’s all for today. Feel free to put forward any suggestions in the
comments section. Subscribe and keep in touch!

 _I’d like to remind you that all materials are provided for educational
purposes only. They aren’t financial advice and don’t guarantee any
profits. All trading decisions you make are your responsibility only._

* * *

Good luck and profits, everyone!

Yours,

Michael @Hypov

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][28]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][29] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of ASX200 in real time mode

![Fundamental and technical analysis of ASX200][30]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/COVID-19_AU_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=bbb9be044e9622b529c233333565906f
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/audusd-fundamental-and-technical-analysis-short--and-long-term-forecasts/
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ASX200&returnUrl=true
   4. www.asx200list.com/
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=a70077e33358eb28e6f737e189ab51e7
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=73124dc19883bf347c30ebbd027575b2
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_G35_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=d5b43a5bd1f05ed5d7633f457960d943
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/g35-asset-valuation-method-through-the-example-of-sp500/
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=acb1a7eb232c32a0415ea389762839ae
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_SPX_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=93aa96724a95f6ad90d7dbb372973302
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/NASDAQ_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=7890c9817affd44d05976690473c1790
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_SHCOMP_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=042c96a75dbe05b02646f1efb1c2b62d
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=61e414f2cdb8854e1955810771ecc65c
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_10.jpg?w=30&s=d9ac87e828d1cb648e1efa13b98dd735
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_11.jpg?w=30&s=d2364c6122025fc07c72635857c76ecb
   16. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_12.jpg?w=30&s=8d18bf2ae77e3f1904e4cbbfd380184a
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_13.jpg?w=30&s=035411b40d568c2c09b7695acc1c363c
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_14.jpg?w=30&s=7e65fd5b210382bea1a2aa77d9d20042
   19. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_21.jpg?w=30&s=bcaf9170674aeb72b048e3d79a3ec653
   20. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_15.jpg?w=30&s=2d775f10d5afcbeffa9842602efc7fc9
   21. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_16.jpg?w=30&s=106f2376c3c54af3a9938a2ba00bce49
   22. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_17.jpg?w=30&s=5473bbca625d97546d59f02213e2672b
   23. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_18.jpg?w=30&s=cf5888b3459f605b09185bd30abd9a89
   24. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_19.jpg?w=30&s=685c22a8cb6ccb9375f0fb0831edf3df
   25. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_20.jpg?w=30&s=26b39b62732624772d8d2345527a1699
   26. my.liteforex.com/trading
   27. www.liteforex.com/contests/dream-draw/?_ga=2.62491052.1027453424.1589809964-2095657289.1460018267
   28. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=fundamental-and-technical-analysis-of-asx200&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   29. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=fundamental-and-technical-analysis-of-asx200&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   30. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.07.16/ASX200_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=8b3b32338dcea3e2cc2c1f7cdc6564f0