+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-07-21"
description = "DAX 30 forecast for 20.07.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "DAX 30 forecast for 20.07.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

July 21, 2020

July 21, 2020

DAX 30 forecast: Europe changes the marketsDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental DAX 30 forecast for today

### German stock index can well outperform the stock indexes of the USA
and other advanced economies

When you go against the majority and express scandalous, at first
glance, thoughts, there is a risk of being burned at the stake. After
all, if the majority were always right, the Sun would still be going
around the Earth. My [trading recommendation][1] given June to buy the
[DAX 30][2] with the targets at 13720 and 13860 could have seemed wrong
at that time. Europe was facing the worst recession over the past few
decades, and the corporate profits should have been so weak that the
German stocks could have crashed. The median forecast of Bloomberg’s
experts suggests that the major German stock index should fall to 12132
by the end of 2020, which is 9% down from the current levels.

For me, the forecast based on the statement of facts is at least
doubtful. A recession? Yes, the euro-area economy is in a recession, but
the downturn of Germany’s economy is not as deep as in other advanced
economies. Terrible corporate reporting? The same is true for other
countries as well. What is more important is that the revenues of German
companies should start rising already in the first half of 2021 amid the
GDP rebound. In mid-July, I bet on the huge fiscal stimulus and a better
epidemiological situation in Germany than that in the USA to other euro-
area countries. It seems I have been right. Furthermore, the agreement
of the French-German emergency plan has pushed the [DAX 30][2] up to the
highest levels since late February, and the bulls are not going to stop.

I should note that the issue of the euro-area bonds to fight the
economic fallout of the pandemic resulted in the faster growth of the
[EuroStoxx 50][3] than the global peers. And this is not only because of
the fiscal boost or the unity of the euro area.

### Dynamics of stock indexes

![LiteForex: DAX 30 forecast for 20.07.2020][4]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Over many years, the European equities were behind the US peers for
three reasons. First, the US leaders, as a rule, were the equities of
high-tech companies, but there is no Facebook, Google, or Apple in
Europe. Second, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s took into account the risks of the euro-area
breakup when investing in European stocks. Third, the favorable tax
regime and loyalty of regulators allowed US corporations to yield more
profits than their peers from Europe. As a result, in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of the P/E
ratio, the [S&P 500][5] has outperformed the EuroStoxx 600 by more than
50% over the past twenty years.

The French-German plan changes much. High-tech companies are being
replaced by environmental companies, and the EU's significant spending
on this area can turn Europe a hub for the growth leaders. According to
the P/E ratio, the [S&P 500][5] looks overbought, and the [DAX 30][2]
seems undervalued compared to the US stock indexes. The euro growth
offsets the benefits of the US companies associated with the tax regime
and regulators. According to the July survey by BofA Merrill Lynch,
asset managers increased the allocation to euro zone equities by 9% to
net 16% overweight. It makes sense in my opinion. The German stock index
has room for growth. So, I should raise my [July forecast][1] to 14200.
The [DAX 30][2] trading recommendation is to buy.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][6]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][7] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of FDAX in real time mode

![DAX 30 forecast: Europe changes the markets][8]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/dax-30-citius-altius-fortius/
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=FDAX&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SX5E&returnUrl=true
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/stocks-21-07-20.jpg?w=30&s=c224f58572ca3256cf1a75174900d387
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   6. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dax-30-forecast-europe-changes-the-markets&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dax-30-forecast-europe-changes-the-markets&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-dax-21-07-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=71317621ecf70e71558d0e4d713dc9f4