+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-12"
description = "Euro price forecast as of October 12 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast as of October 12 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-12

2020-10-12

Forex after the vote: Euro is going to rally. Forecast as of
12.10.2020Dmitri Demidenko

Will the [EURUSD][1] bulls go ahead after the US presidential elections?
What currencies are the best to buy on the investment horizon of six-
nine months? Let us see the future investment ideas and make up a long-
term [Forex trading](https://www.fintechee.com/forex-trading-strategies/) plan.

## Fundamental euro forecast for six months

Financial markets are currently focused on the US presidential election.
Investors bet on the assets according to the approval ratings of Donald
Trump and Joe Biden. Nonetheless, Forex trading doesn’t end after
November 3, and we need to select an investment strategy to trade in the
long term. If we assume that trade wars will be left in the past, and
the COVID-19 vaccines will help the global GDP recover, the idea of the
divergence in the economic expansion will be quite useful when forming
an investment portfolio.

According to Bloomberg’s research, the largest global economies will
suffer from the pandemic fallout over the next few years. 8 members of
the G 20 countries will have a lower GDP in 2020 than in 2019. Besides,
China, India, Spain, Italy, France, and Britain feature a higher growth
next year, while Australia, the USA, and Japan are unlikely to show
impressive performance.

### Forecasts for economic growth

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The situation in China is clear. Because of the effective management of
the pandemic, it will be able to expand the economy already in 2020. In
2021, the Chinese economy will continue growing amid the strengthening
of not only the domestic demand but also with the help of foreign
demand. The Chinese yuan is rising steadily, and even the attempts of
the Chinese officials to interfere do not discourage the [USDCNH][2]
bears. The export-led euro-area economy strongly depends on foreign
buyers, and the expansion of the largest Asian economy will support the
euro. The introduction of the coronavirus vaccines in January-March will
provide benefits to the tourism-led countries, such as Italy and Spain.
The euro should feature excellent performance in the second quarter of
2021.

In 2017, the [EURUSD][1] was rising steadily, the currencies of Eastern
Europe, the Polish zloty, the Czech koruna, and the Hungarian forint,
were also strong. I believe in May-September 2021 the situation will
repeat. The Eastern European region depends on the euro-area demand.
Besides, the ECB’s ultra-easy monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) and the financial
assistance provided by the EU will support Poland, The Czech Republic,
and Hungary. I would pay attention to the Polish zloty, as Poland
received one of the biggest stimulus packages in the EU because of
Donald Tusk.

###  **Grants and loans provided to the EU countries**



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg._

The GBP FX rates include too much political negative resulted form
Brexit. If the EU and the UK manage to sign a deal at the last moment,
the [GBPUSD][3] will be rising despite weak economic data and the talks
about negative rates the Bank of England could introduce.

### [EURUSD][1] trading plan for the next six months

If there is a Brexit deal and the UK economy is expanding at the highest
rate among the G20 countries, the sterling could become one of the Forex
leaders in the next 6-9 months. The bet on the GBP will fail if the UK
and the EU divorce without a deal. The second quarter of 2021 will be
the best for the [EURUSD][1] bulls while, starting from the May-June
period, it will be relevant to sell the [USDPLN][4], [USDCZK][5], and
[USDHUF][6].

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][7]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][8] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCNH&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDPLN&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCZK&returnUrl=true
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDHUF&returnUrl=true
   7. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forex-after-the-vote-euro-is-going-to-rally-forecast-as-of-12102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forex-after-the-vote-euro-is-going-to-rally-forecast-as-of-12102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus