+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-11-19"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (19 November 2021)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (19 November 2021)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-11-19

2021-11-19

Short-term analysis for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 19.11.2021Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for intraday traders.

Gold continues to trade in a short-term downtrend with a target in the
lower Target Zone.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

The oil correction started yesterday. As part of the correction, the
Additional Zone 77.75 - 77.63 was broken out, and the Intermediary Zone
79.16 - 78.90 was reached. Now the price is testing the Intermediary
Zone — the trend border. If this zone is held and a sell pattern is
formed, sell oil with the first target at November 18 low. The second
target for sales will be the Gold Zone 75.93 - 75.67.

If the IZ is broken out upside and the price closes higher at the US
trading session, then the short-term trend will reverse up. In this
case, enter oil purchases. The target for purchases will be the upper
Target Zone 81.96 - 81.45.

### [USCrude][1] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone 79.47 - 79.22.
TakeProfit: 76.42, Gold Zone 75.93 - 75.67. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold continues to trade in a short-term downtrend with a target in the
lower Target Zone of 1839 - 1835. The price is now in the zone of
favorable sell prices 1870 - 1858. I recommend considering short trades
in this zone with the first target at November 16 low and the second
target in the Target Zone.

If today or tomorrow the price breaks out the range upside and breaks
out level 1870, then the short-term trend will reverse up. In this case,
expect the price to reach the upper Target Zone 1890 - 1887 and wait for
the update of the November 16 high.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in the zone of 1870 - 1858. TakeProfit:
1850, Target Zone 1839 - 1836. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Yesterday the euro broke out the Intermediary Zone 1.1360 - 1.1351. The
short-term trend has reversed up. Now the upper Target Zone 1.1457 -
1.1439 serves as the target for purchases.

At the moment, the pair is correcting down and testing the broken out
Intermediary Zone. The zone of favorable prices for purchases is
slightly lower, namely in the Additional Zone 1.1330 - 1.1325. If the AZ
is broken out downside, expect the price in ​​the Intermediary Zone
1.1286 - 1.1277. The IZ serves as the border of a new uptrend.

Today traders should pay attention to the euro purchases according to
the pattern at strong support levels.

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone 1.1330 - 1.1325.
TakeProfit: Target Zone 1.1457 - 1.1439. StopLoss: according to the
pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-19112021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-19112021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus