+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-02"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 02.09.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 02.09.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=1.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

September 2, 2020

September 2, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 02.09.2020Alex Rodionov

##  **Oil price forecast** **for** **today:** ** **USCrude****
******analysis**

Hardly anything has changed in the medium-term oil chart since
yesterday. The buy target is still Target Zone 6 [49.17 - 48.42]. Hold
up long trades entered in the broken-out TZ 5 and enter new purchases on
the correction to the trend key support [37.34 — 36.72].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 02.09.2020][1]

The short-term oil trend is up. The upside target is Intermediary Zone
[44.41 – 44.10]. A little higher is the strong resistance Gold Zone
[45.04 – 44.67]. I recommend holding purchases entered in the zone
[42.70 – 41.84] up to the above zone (IZ and GZ).

It will be relevant to sell oil if the price breaks out Additional Zone
[42.00 – 41.84], and the US session closes the price below the zone. In
this case, the short-term trend will turn down. The sell target will be
in the lower IZ [40.44 — 40.13].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 02.09.2020][2]

###  **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Hold up buy trades entered in Additional Zone [42.70 - 42.55]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [44.41 - 44.10]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [42.00 - 41.84]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [44.41 - 44.10]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis**

Gold price is testing the broken-out level 1962.0, which is the support,
from above. Enter purchases at this level with a target at the high of
August.

If the price rolls back into the range of [1962.0 – 1903.5], we shall
expect the market to go down.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 02.09.2020][4]

The short-term gold trend is up. The upside target is to test Target
Zone [2005.1 - 1995.8].

The price was corrected down yesterday. Additional Zone [1969.1 –
1966.8] was tested. Traders are trying to break out this zone, so the
price is likely to go down to Intermediary Zone [1945.9 – 1941.2].

Intermediary Zone is the border of the short-term uptrend. Until it is
broken out, we shall enter purchases according to the pattern. Once the
US session closes the price below the zone, we shall sell gold with a
target in the lower Target Zone [1899.4 — 1890.1].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 02.09.2020][5]

###  **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:**

  1. Sell in Additional Zone [1969.1 - 1966.8]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1945.9 - 1941.2]. StopLoss: 1974.0.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1945.9 - 1941.2]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [2005.1 - 1995.8]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis**

The EUR/USD is trading in the middle-term uptrend. The price is testing
the support zone of [1.1914 - 1.1896]. I suggest looking for buy signals
in the support zone. If the correction continues, we shall enter buy
trades in the key support zone [1.1797 — 1.1777].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 02.09.2020][7]

The EURUSD bulls couldn’t break out the strong resistance Target Zone
[1.1954 – 1.1936]. Yesterday, buyers were exiting long trades. But the
short-term uptrend hasn’t yet reversed.

The downside correction has stopped in the trend key support zone
[1.1911 – 1.1901]. Today, I recommend entering purchases according to
the pattern. The upside target is level 1.2010 + Gold Zone [1.2036 -
1.2027]. Open buy positions only when there is a corresponding pattern.

An alternative scenario to trade the EURUSD. The price breaks out IZ,
and the US session closes below the zone. If so, starting from tomorrow,
we shall sell the euro down to the lower Target Zone [1.1811 — 1.1791].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 02.09.2020][8]

###  **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today:**

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1911 - 1.1901].
TakeProfit: 1.2010, Gold Zone [1.2036 - 1.2027]. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold and, EUR/USD for 02.09.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_020920_1.png?w=30&s=9a7d6c1b18a861dbd1c4d55c6ab873dd
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_020920_2.png?w=30&s=554c4bfdb8195b590b6ebf430d6c05d0
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_020920_1.png?w=30&s=eabe037c3a0752c7b339b9b401e14d87
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_020920_2.png?w=30&s=77bcd827e7e2525b5757ea2eae8e782e
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_020920_1.png?w=30&s=6ac1ecd8ea3618a66e2fdcb0ca741b0f
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_020920_2.png?w=30&s=04b4b292489177e4bc661f11292df2c5
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-02092020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-02092020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/eur_106.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=61fb3f104b9ffc21da4dfe52193ee4b4