+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-02"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 02.09.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 02.09.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=3.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

September 2, 2020

September 2, 2020

EUR/USD forecast: Euro faces somber realityDmitri Demidenko

##  **Fundamental Euro forecast for today**

### Euro’s strengthening sets back European Inflation and forces the ECB
to boost QE

The Forex is a paradox! The EU governments agreed on the massive fiscal
stimulus, and the euro versus the US dollar has been 12% up from the
lows hit in March. The lack of agreement in the Governing Council should
send the [EUR/USD][1] up to 1.25 in 2021. The ECB cannot afford to
follow the Fed’s example and target the average inflation as the hawks
oppose it. After all, it about the future. The euro is rolling down now
after the ECB’s verbal intervention, the first in a long time.

ECB chief economist Philip Lane says the euro-dollar exchange rate is
significant. It affects the global and the euro-area outlook projected
by the ECB, thus determining the ECB monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/). Earlier, Lane
claimed that the next stage in overcoming the shock would be inflation
stimulation. The Governing Council was going to stimulate inflation in
case of necessity. In August, the euro area faces deflation for the
first time in the past four years; naturally, the central bankers
discuss the expansion of the QE.

###  **Dynamics of euro-area inflation**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 02.09.2020][2]

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The consumer prices were 0.2% down; core inflation hit a record low of
0.4% amid several factors. The energy prices are lower than in 2019, the
VAT in Germany was reduced, and discounting during summer sales in
France, Italy, and Belgium. Deflation is in 12 countries of the
19-nation euro area. Considering a drop in employment and the slower
wages growth, the ECB faces serious problems.

However, the Governing Council’s hawks do not panic. Executive Board
member Isabel Schnabel says that incoming data don’t suggest a need for
further monetary easing. Furthermore, the impact of the euro’s exchange
rate on inflation is not clear, which is proven by the ECB research.
Germany’s government predicts a 5.8% contraction of the GDP, compared to
6.3% suggested earlier. The German GDP is expected to rebound in 2021
amid several positive factors. The lockdowns are relaxed, the COVID-19
vaccines are tested, there are fiscal stimulus packages, China’s economy
is recovering fast.

So, the principle “buy on rumors, sell on facts” has worked out in this
case. Just yesterday, I noted that some Forex analysts expected that
Germany’s GDP outlook should be revised up. Besides, the ECB’s verbal
interventions and a strong reading of the US manufacturing PMI
encouraged the [EUR/USD][1] bears to go ahead.

###  **Dynamics of global manufacturing PMIs**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 02.09.2020][3]

 _Source_ _: Wall Street Journal_

I believe that the opposition of the hawks and doves won’t allow the ECB
to follow the Fed’s path in the average inflation targeting. It will
support the euro’s uptrend. In the meanwhile, I must admit that the
upward movement of the [EUR/USD][1] has been overstretched. According to
Bloomberg’s research based on the [options](https://www.fixpro.org/post/options-liquidity/) market bets, the [EUR/USD][1]
can either go up to 1.25 or drop to 1.15 with equal chances. The euro’s
uptrend needs a correction. The correction will go on if the price
breaks out the support zone of 1.1865-1.1875.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![EUR/USD forecast: Euro faces somber reality][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/cpi-euro-area-02-09-20.jpg?w=30&s=7c282c6f8a9be860e7e7c12155c3d1f9
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/pmi-02-09-20.jpg?w=30&s=b9c2a25f0438d4ffbaa851fdc9aa6053
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-euro-faces-somber-reality&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-euro-faces-somber-reality&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-02-09-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=122bdf7f7c74f8b2a57099924c4f7e81