+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-09-02"
description = "fundamental and technical analysis of USDCHF"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "fundamental and technical analysis of USDCHF"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

September 2, 2020

September 2, 2020

Analysis of USDCHF and forecast for the Swiss franc’s priceMikhail Hypov

This article will examine in detail the Swiss franc’s state. I’ll
provide fundamental and technical analysis,make a forecast for USDCHF
for September, the end of the year and next year.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Fundamental analysis

The Swiss frank is a specific currency. In the first place, the reason
for that is the “safe haven” status that the Swiss franc owes to the
Swiss banking system’s impeccable reputation and reliability, and the
country’s economic and political stability.

![LiteForex: Forecast for Swiss franc: fundamental and technical
analysis of USDCHF][1]

The evolution of the Swiss National Bank (SNB)’s interest rate is shown
in the chart above. The refinance rate dropped below zero five years
ago, approximately. Switzerland remains the country with the lowest
refinance rate, even if the trend of lowering rates has become global.
The value of -0.75% was set already in 2015 and hasn’t changed ever
since. This decision allowed the government to top up the budget with
huge amounts of money, because of the Swiss banking system’s super-
profits. A Swiss bank account holder has to pay for opening an account
and maintaining it in Swiss francs. However, there’s a dark side to
every story. A more expensive franc affects export sectors that account
for 50% of the total industrial production. The low interest rate limits
the Central bank in term of its currency rate control
measures.![LiteForex: Forecast for Swiss franc: fundamental and
technical analysis of USDCHF][2]

In fact, the only thing the SNB can do is activate the printing press.
The chart above shows that the M2 money supply has been growing since
March 2020 amidst the pandemic-driven economic crisis. This dynamics is
due to a bigger demand for the Swiss franc among the non-residents
during these crisis times. However, every crisis has its end, and the
demand will fall. People will want to spend more, and they will sell
their francs. As it’s almost impossible to raise the rate, the SNB may
face an excess of francs. Though this is a mere hypothesis, the
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s who hold Swiss francs as their main currency need to consider
these risks.

Compared with other European countries, Switzerland feels better.

![LiteForex: Forecast for Swiss franc: fundamental and technical
analysis of USDCHF][3]

The Bloomberg analysts note that Switzerland’s Q2 GDP slump was only
8.2%, which is less than 18.5%  in Spain and 13.8% in
France.![LiteForex: Forecast for Swiss franc: fundamental and technical
analysis of USDCHF][4]

Checking the aggregate numbers, we see that Switzerland lost only 10.5%
GDP in total.

A shorter self-isolation period allowed the country to avoid more severe
economic consequences. The Swiss economy is less dependent on tourism,
its GDP share being only 1.8%. At the same time, the share of
pharmaceutical companies in Switzerland’s industry is comparable to the
car industry’s one in Germany. Obviously, the pharma sector will be
flourishing in the pandemic’s conditions.

![LiteForex: Forecast for Swiss franc: fundamental and technical
analysis of USDCHF][5]

Still, the Swiss economy has been in a deepest recession since 1970,
according to the report of Swiss State Secretariat for Economic Affairs.
Based on the current estimates, the final GDP slump will be about 6% in
2020. At the same time, Credit Suisse Group AG’s expectations that the
Swiss budget deficit will be less than 30 billion CHF are optimistic.
It’s the number that Head of the Department of Finance Ueli Maurer
mentioned earlier.

As a conclusion, I can say that the general market situation is quite
tense. Since the Swiss economy depends on the global one, it can endure
significant losses. However, the country was prepared for the crisis
better than others, and the recovery process may be faster than
expected. Switzerland’s gold reserve is the world’s seventh biggest,
while the total volume of gold/forex reserves is one trillion USD. In
the absence of debt load, Switzerland can stand up to the global
economic crisis.

## Technical analysis

In my previous article I [mentioned][6] the importance of analysing DXY,
the dollar index, as it’s the main factor in dollar pairs’ rate changes.

![LiteForex: Forecast for Swiss franc: fundamental and technical
analysis of USDCHF][7]

The Swiss franc isn’t an exception. The chart above shows that its
correlation with the index is close to 1. So, it’s important to
understand the situation around the USD to make a correct forecast for
the [USDCHF][8] pair.![LiteForex: Forecast for Swiss franc: fundamental
and technical analysis of USDCHF][9]

In [last week’s article][6] I mentioned the index’s global trends.  I
drew your attention to the global bearish trend in a descending
triangle.![LiteForex: Forecast for Swiss franc: fundamental and
technical analysis of USDCHF][10]

However, DXY is at it historic lows and near strong support levels
locally. I expected consolidation inside the local triangle and a short
bullish correction.![LiteForex: Forecast for Swiss franc: fundamental
and technical analysis of USDCHF][11]

The market behaved in a different way and updated the historic
high.![LiteForex: Forecast for Swiss franc: fundamental and technical
analysis of USDCHF][12]

On the monthly time frame, the DXY index broke out an important local
bullish trend. The next important support level is at February 2018’s
low at 88.25 points. Pivot Fibonacci’s S3 level is broken too. On the
one hand, it indicates that the dollar is oversold; on the other hand,
it points to a strong bearish impulse.

![LiteForex: Forecast for Swiss franc: fundamental and technical
analysis of USDCHF][13]

There’s no significant support on the H4 time frame. Pivot Fibonacci’s
S3 monthly level is at around 90.73.   The index is starting a new month
under the balance level, so a movement to the S3 limit is an appropriate
scenario. The lower limit of the channel is nearby too, which is a
magnet for the index from the technical point of view. At the same time,
none of the oscillators is giving a reversal signal. All has been
directed downwards so far.![LiteForex: Forecast for Swiss franc:
fundamental and technical analysis of USDCHF][14]

Now let’s move to the analysis of USDCHF.  Like DXY, the pair broke out
a strong support level in the form of an ascending trend line. February
2018’s low is broken too. The next important level is at 0.70 CHF, near
the historic low of 1 August 2011. ![LiteForex: Forecast for Swiss
franc: fundamental and technical analysis of USDCHF][15]

The chart above compares the DXY index and the [USDCHF][8] pair. The
dynamics of these two instruments have been almost identical since 2020.
There are no strong support levels and trend reversal signs for the
Swiss franc at the moment.![LiteForex: Forecast for Swiss franc:
fundamental and technical analysis of USDCHF][16]

The [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) chart above shows a bearish picture, like for the DXY index.
USDCHF is below the monthly Fibonacci Pivot balance level. MACD is
finishing to correct and it is reversing down. There is no serious
divergence. ROC TD is in the balance zone and may go down.

On the whole, all those signals point to a further slump.

## USDCHF’s scenario for 2021

![LiteForex: Forecast for Swiss franc: fundamental and technical
analysis of USDCHF][17]

The 2021 scenario for the USD looks bearish. [USDCHF ][8] went outside a
rising wedge.   This pattern’s nearest target is its bottom. So, the
bearish correction can move to 0.766 CHF / 1 USD. January 2015’s low may
suspend the fall, and we may see the pair consolidating at 0.827 - 0.880
CHF until the end of 2021. The situation will become clearer in January.

## Trading plan for USDCHF for the end of 2020

![LiteForex: Forecast for Swiss franc: fundamental and technical
analysis of USDCHF][18]

USDCHF is in a strong bearish trend. The nearest target is at around
0.880 CHF. If the dollar’s devaluation rate doesn’t get faster, the pair
may be consolidating at that level till the end of the year.

Trading plan for up to the end of 2020:

  * Short position from the current levels. The perfect sell level is at the upper limit of the channel at 0.907 CHF. 
  * The short position’s target is at the support level of 0.880 CHF.
  * Stop loss is required in case the pair goes outside the bearish trend. It should be trailed down as the price reaches the target. The initial value is at about 0.917 CHF.

## Trading plan for USDCHF for September 2020

![LiteForex: Forecast for Swiss franc: fundamental and technical
analysis of USDCHF][19]

If you act fast, you can manage to open a short position this week:

  * Enter at about 0.900 CHF.
  * Target: the channel’s and S3 lower limit at 0.8868 CHF.
  * Stop loss should be placed beyond the balance level of monthly Pivot at 0.910 CHF.

The Profit/Risk ratio of 1.61 isn’t the best one, so enter with a small
lot.

The next promising trade is at the retracement from the bearish
channel’s lower limit. The opening date is approximately in the middle
of the month.

  * The level for opening long positions is near the S3 support line at 0.886 CHF.
  * Stop loss is placed outside the bearish channel and support level’s limits at 0.880 CHF.
  * Target: 0.908 CHF.

The Profit/Risk ratio of 3.13 is much better.  Please remember to
observe your personal risk management rules.

If you are just starting to trade, try a demo account first. [Trade][8]
with the leader of the Forex service market in 1 click without
registration.

* * *

Good luck and profits, everyone!

Yours,

Michael @Hypov

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][20]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][21] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of USDCHF in real time mode

![Analysis of USDCHF and forecast for the Swiss franc’s price][22]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/Shveytsarskaya_stavka_refinansirovaniya_1.jpg?w=30&s=6e5b18d9a32ef1fd05d292a090074868
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/M2_2.jpg?w=30&s=cc3a97fabb8f628a8c43e5df347bfed0
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/GDP_3.jpg?w=30&s=8569f8580abf1074f2a2ff800f6123a9
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/GDP_4.jpg?w=30&s=6ac21bab4884bc58c42ee8bfe103223d
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/ekonomicheskiy_spad_5.jpg?w=30&s=1b43993f5f05a4c3e66d0e432ad86d71
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/analysis-of-audusd-and-forecast-for-the-aud-price/
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/DXY_vs_USDCHF_6.jpg?w=30&s=9214aff62ee9b2d8d5a1c716fcc10470
   8. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCHF
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/DXY_7.jpg?w=30&s=f809d0ebb0171286b1e8063dc9ed8c4a
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/DXY_8.jpg?w=30&s=6eb108d8a4a2c648ae4151f4606bb050
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/DXY_9.jpg?w=30&s=21df1bebe03b77879b299d06d766a15c
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/DXY_10.jpg?w=30&s=a83b7d35dbc152729b17843c4085eb37
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/DXY_11.jpg?w=30&s=a48787556e42c80b71c44b60810c7825
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/USDCHF_12.jpg?w=30&s=df9d6d8e26c4ff2fcf33458b4eb3d1a7
   15. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/USDCHF_13.jpg?w=30&s=2df96819eec288aeba23c7129d8b03b5
   16. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/USDCHF_14.jpg?w=30&s=a96924490fec4b7feba51814338e74bc
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/USDCHF_15.jpg?w=30&s=dab88b0191f9633e6e04d4ebd7c462e8
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/USDCHF_16.jpg?w=30&s=103e41fcb3ad2d9a8fd863937f0974ac
   19. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/USDCHF_17.jpg?w=30&s=9973505bbe526b97f9956ddc3bd7bc68
   20. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-of-usdchf-and-forecast-for-the-swiss-francs-price&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   21. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-of-usdchf-and-forecast-for-the-swiss-francs-price&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   22. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.09.01/USDCHF_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=f9583951637e9f831702eb4acb1a0f0a