+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-19"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (19 November 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (19 November 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-19

2020-11-19

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 19.11.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

The EURUSD didn’t break out the key resistance of the short-term
downtrend yesterday.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Nothing has changed in the medium-term oil price chart. The middle-term
uptrend continues; the target is in Target Zone 2 [44.22 — 43.71].

The short-term oil trend is still down. The pattern to sell in
Additional Zone didn’t work out. The price has reached the trend key
resistance Intermediary Zone [42.63 – 42.39].

The price didn’t break out the resistance. The price has rolled down
from the zone. For today, I recommend expecting a reversal pattern to
sell. The pattern will appear if the price breaks through the low of
November 17. There could also form a 1-2-3 pattern.

As for the sell targets, the first downside target is the low of
November 13. The second target is Target Zone [38.24 — 37.77].

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [42.63 - 42.39].
TakeProfit: 40.05, Target Zone [38.24 - 37.77]. StopLoss: according to
the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Let us explore the four-hour gold price chart. It is clear that the gold
price is being corrected up in the middle-term downtrend. We shall
expect good sell prices to enter new shorts.

The short-term gold trend is down. The H1 chart shows that the gold
price is being corrected after reaching the primary sell target Target
Zone [1850.4 – 1838.9].

I recommend entering new sell trades according to the pattern in
Intermediary Zone [1913.6 – 1907.9]. The downside target will be the low
of last week.

If the low of last week is broken through before the trend key
resistance test, we shall rearrange the resistance zones.

One could also buy in the correction, but you should expect until a
corresponding pattern forms and the price rolls back into Additional
Zone [1870.3 — 1867.4].

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1913.6 - 1907.9]. TakeProfit: 1850.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1870.3 - 1867.4]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [1913.6 - 1907.9]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

EURUSD is running up in the middle-term uptrend. The upside target is
Target Zone 2 [1.2032 - 1.2012]. I recommend entering purchases at good
prices. The trend key support is in the zone of [1.1688 — 1.1665].

Let us look at the short-term EURUSD price chart. The short-term trend
is down. Traders were trying to break out the key resistance [1.1873 –
1.1861]. They didn’t break out the zone.

The price chart is drawing a pattern looking like a ‘double extreme’
pattern. If the European session confirms the breakthrough of the
reference low 1.18504, we shall sell according to this pattern.

An alternative scenario to buy euro will be relevant if the price breaks
out Intermediary Zone and consolidates above at the US session. In this
case, the short-term trend will turn up, and the buy target will be the
upper Target Zone [1.2000 — 1.1977].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

Sell according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1873 - 1.1861].
TakeProfit: 1.1747, Target Zone [1.1688 - 1.1665]. StopLoss: according
to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-19112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-19112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus