+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-11-19"
description = "Yuan price forecast November 19 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Yuan price forecast November 19 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-11-19

2020-11-19

Yuan will repeat dollar’s fate. Forecast as of 19.11.2020Dmitri
Demidenko

The USA used the Second World War to increase the greenback importance
in the international finance system. Let us discuss the Forex outlook
and make up a [USDCNH][1] trading plan.

##  **Fundamental yuan forecast for a year**

War is when one fights to the last ditch, and another gets rich. Amid
the pandemic and global economic recession, many people got ill, died,
lost their jobs, went bankrupt. Others, on the contrary, adjusted,
started businesses, and increase their fortunes. This is true for the
whole countries. The deepest downturns in the USA, the euro area, and
other advanced economies contrast with China’s continued expansion. The
demand for Chinese exports is so high that Beijing may not worry about
the longest, six-month, yuan strengthening. China seems to benefit from
the COVID-19 pandemic just as well as the USA did after World War II.

In the 21st century, GDP per capita in China has doubled twice: from
2000 to 2006 and from 2007 to 2013. The IMF expects that the Chinese GDP
per capita will double again in the period from 2014 to 2024. For a
quarter of a century, according to this indicator, China will overtake
56 countries of the world, and the annual GDP growth rate will average
9.1%. The pandemic, which slowed down most states' economies, played an
important role in this process. The US dollar has strengthened greatly
after the Second World War so that the renminbi could follow the same
path.

According to HSBC, the yuan should have joined the G10 currencies list.
The yuan is in the eighth place by the volume of conversion operations,
and its impact on other assets is growing rapidly. According to the Bank
for International Settlements, the volume of the renminbi transactions
in Forex in April 2019 was $ 285 billion per day. In China’s domestic
market in November, it reached $ 45 billion per day, the highest since
December 2018.

###  **Dynamics of yuan transactions in the Chinese domestic currency
market**



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The Chinese economy is strong. It should be the driver of the world’s
GDP during at least the next six months. It is evident from the
forecasts of Bloomberg’s experts; they suggest the growth of the
industrial production and investments into the core capital in October.
China’s retail sales grew from 3.3% to 4.3% Y-o-Y, exports are growing
at the highest rate since early 2019.

### Dynamics of China’s industrial production and retail sales

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

In addition to the divergences in the economic growth and monetary
policies, the [USDCNH][1] bears are also encouraged by the inflow of
direct investments in October (+18% Y-o-Y) over seven consecutive
months, the widest ever gap between the yields on the Chinese and US
government bonds.

Although Joe Biden, during his presidential campaign, promised to pursue
a tough [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) towards China, and after his election victory, urged
allies to coordinate to counter China's growing influence, he will
hardly be worse than Donald Trump in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of the US-China trade
relations. On the contrary, the US could lower or even cancel the latest
tariffs on Chinese imports. All these factors should strengthen the
renminbi.

###  **Yearly[USDCNH][1] trading plan**

I believe the forecast I wrote in [early October,][2] suggesting 6.5
yuans for the US dollar, is out of date now. The [USDCNH][1] pair could
go down to 6.32 over the next twelve months. Besides, a potential
correction of the [S&P 500][3] and increased demand for safe-havens will
give a chance to buy the renminbi at a lower price.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of USDCNH in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCNH&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/yuan-spots-the-candidate-forecast-as-of-01102020/
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=yuan-will-repeat-dollars-fate-forecast-as-of-19112020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=yuan-will-repeat-dollars-fate-forecast-as-of-19112020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus