+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-28"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 28, 2020

May 28, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.05.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

Target Zone 4 [34.17 — 33.42] is the strong resistance of the oil
uptrend this week. As the price approached the zone, the volatility has
declined. There is now forming a consolidation range. When the price
breaks the consolidation range, it may further break out TZ 4 and reach
TZ 5 [41.67 – 40.92].

An alternative scenario suggests the price correction down to the zone
of the trend key support [24.47 — 23.57].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.05.2020][1]

The short-term chart signals a correction down in the uptrend.
Yesterday, traders were testing Additional Zone [31.22 – 31.00]. There
wasn’t a buy pattern. The support has been broken out today at the Asian
session.

The likely target of the correction is the test of Intermediary Zone
[28.97 – 28.52]. This is the border of the uptrend. Today, I suggest
looking for sell entries according to the pattern in the broken-out AZ
or the new correctional one [32.43 — 32.21].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.05.2020][2]



 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [31.22 - 31.00]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [28.97 - 28.52]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [32.43 - 32.21]. TakeProfit: Intermediary Zone [28.97 - 28.52]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

In the medium-term chart, the gold price is being corrected down in the
middle-term uptrend. The correction target is to test Target Zone
[1673.6 – 1664.4]. One can enter new sell trades at the 50% Fibonacci
retracement level.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.05.2020][4]

The sellers broke out the key support of the uptrend [1719.3 – 1714.8]
yesterday. As a result, the short-term trend reversed down. Now, the
sell target is in Target Zone [1673.6 - 1664.4].

The price is now being corrected up and testing the intraday resistance,
Additional Zone [1718.8 – 1716.5]. I suggest looking sell trades
according to the pattern in the zone.

It will be relevant to buy gold when buyers break the AZ out and
consolidate the price above. If so, the target will be in Intermediary
Zone [1744.0 — 1739.4].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.05.2020][5]



 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:  **

Sell according to the pattern at level 1723.7. TakeProfit: Target Zone
[1673.6 - 1664.4]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EUR/USD is still trading in the uptrend, according to the margin
zones. However, there is an accumulation zone (trading flat) in the
middle-term chart. Traders are now testing the resistance level 1.1017.
If it is broken out, the price should reach Target Zone 2 [1.1109 —
1.1091].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.05.2020][7]

The EURUSD short-term chart shows the price growth, the upside target is
to test Target Zone [1.1070 – 1.1052]. The local trend is up. If we
analyze the margin zones, we will see that the price is moving up from
the strong supports, Additional Zones.

The local high has been broken through at the Asian session today, so,
we can mark new support zones. The new Additional Zone [1.0989 - 1.0985]
and Intermediary Zone [1.0944 – 1.0935] are good zones to enter
purchases with a target in the upper TZ.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.05.2020][8]



 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1.0989 - 1.0985]. TakeProfit: 1.1034, Target Zone [1.1070 - 1.1052]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.0944 - 1.0935]. TakeProfit: 1.1034, Target Zone [1.1070 - 1.1052]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 28.05.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_280520_1.png?w=30&s=e5f417030931514b91c5d7cef4f6de9e
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_280520_2.png?w=30&s=adca055c1177ed20209415019272cd84
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_280520_1.png?w=30&s=b34cbcec9878a83fdde3422bf00bebe1
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_280520_2.png?w=30&s=93d7c957488ccf5d1ab3e1b28176072c
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_280520_1.png?w=30&s=6fb44bd089f4f5fb9417d47293655f60
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_280520_2.png?w=30&s=19a1a12bc5dfc7a4a8188c2aaf290fd8
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-28052020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-28052020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/oil_145.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=cc12b4994dd67165ba5d7003a2c27c75