+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-28"
description = "EUR/USD forecast for June 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EUR/USD forecast for June 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 28, 2020

May 28, 2020

Forex in June: the impossible is possibleDmitri Demidenko

## The growth of global risk appetite, which looked incredible in April
and unnatural in May, can continue in June

In Forex, like in a casino, the most important is to stop at the right
time. Based on the statistical analysis with fundamental components, I
[recommended exiting the EUR/USD and GBP/USD shorts][1] at the end of
May. Just these two operations could have increased the deposit by 6%.
Alas, but the strong euro rally at the end of May has a little spoiled
the whole situation. The shorts on the [EUR/USD][2] and [EUR/JPY][3]
yielded losses of about 3.3%, and shorts on the [GBP/USD][4] and
[GBP/CHF][5] resulted in a loss of about 3.9%. Greed may lead to losses.
However, I have many times stressed that seasonal regularities should be
used in addition to the fundamental and technical analysis.

June is a good time for commodity currencies. Since 1975, the AUD and
CAD strengthened versus the US dollar in 27 cases against 18. The NZD
performed a little worse, however, it also rose against the greenback.
The idea to buy the [AUD/USD][6] and sell the [USD/CAD][7] is not new, I
have [recently][8] written about this based on the lockdown stringency.

 **Periods of rise and fall**

![LiteForex: EUR/USD forecast for June 2020][9]

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex analysis_

The pound is usually weak in May amid the dividend payments to
foreigners, which has been again proven in May. However, [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) proves
that the situation radically changes in June. The sterling, as a rule,
is among the best-performing currencies in June. The GBP median
performance is behind only the AUD and the NZD. The median value was
lower due to the [GBP/USD][4] sale-offs in 1975 (-6.1%), 1981 (-6.8%),
1988 (-7.9%), and 2016 (-8.4%). In the latter case, the sales resulted
from the referendum on the UK membership in the EU, whose fallout is
still present. For example, Boris Johnson should participate in the EU
summit in June. If the UK Prime Minister makes a step towards the
agreement with Brussels or extends the Brexit deadline, this will be a
positive factor for the pound.

 **Averages and Medians**

![LiteForex: EUR/USD forecast for June 2020][10]

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex analysis_

I should note that the greenback was usually rather weak in June, which
under the current conditions means the S&P 500 rally should continue.
According to James Bullard, the president Federal Reserve Bank of St.
Louis, if the US GDP features the worst drop in the second quarter, it
should feature the best performance in the third quarter. There is still
some hope for the V-shaped recovery of the US economy. Besides, the
growth of the US stocks, usually followed by an increase in the global
risk appetite, is a good reason to use the excellent [trading conditions
offered by LiteForex][11] and buy income-earning assets. However, do
remember the rule that, in Forex, like in a casino, the most important
is to stop on time. Even in the [best time](https://www.fixpro.org/post/forex-best-time-to-trade/)s, the AUD and the CAD rose by
just 1.55% and 1.12%.

 **Dynamics of currencies in the periods of rise and fall**

![LiteForex: EUR/USD forecast for June 2020][12]

 _Source: BoE, LiteForex analysis_

Supported by the unity and generosity of the EU, the euro is rising.
However, taking into account the seasonal strength of the Swiss franc, I
would hedge the [EUR/USD][2] longs by the [EUR/CHF][13] shorts, betting
on the high volatility of the world’s major currencies, which suggest
moderate targets.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][14]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][15] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Forex in June: the impossible is possible][16]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/forex-in-may-greenback-is-getting-stronger/
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURJPY&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPCHF&returnUrl=true
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=AUDUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDCAD&returnUrl=true
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/forex-is-exiting-lockdown/
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/stat1-28-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=01c4bf7dd5c5d0d2261ed0ba0fe0ddb0
   10. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/stat2-28-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=a768dbc04f9ddd0ee0914f9453128092
   11. my.liteforex.com/?go-zone=
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/stat3-28-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=7d9c36fb9cbb4ade36c6cbddbc90048b
   13. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURCHF&returnUrl=true
   14. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forex-in-june-the-impossible-is-possible&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   15. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=forex-in-june-the-impossible-is-possible&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   16. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-forex-28-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=e3a4d1e7bb3ae2be83f2fc4320c48cd9