+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-28"
description = "NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in flat corrections"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in flat corrections"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 28, 2020

May 28, 2020

NeoWave. Part 22. Progress labels and their application to flat
correctionsMikhail Hypov

## I continue covering progress labels. Rules, proportions, position
indicators, and progress labels in corrective patterns.

Dear friends!

In the previous articles, I covered progress labels in the impulse
patterns. Today, I will explain the application of the progress labels
to corrective patterns.

If you are not familiar with the NeoWave theory, I recommend you to read
all the articles, starting from the first one, in the NeoWave series
based on Glenn Neely’s book Mastering Elliott Waves.

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][1].

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels. ][2]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][3]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][5]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][6].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][10].

[NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][11]

[NeoWave. Part 12. Impulsions and the rules to analyze impulse wave
patterns. ][12]

[NeoWave. Part 13. Corrections. Rules to identify a correction.][13]

[NeoWave. Part 14. Triangles. Rules to identify triangles.][14]

[NeoWave. Part 15. Basic and advanced rules of logic to analyze
triangles][15].

[NeoWave. Part 16. Extended rules of logic for Flats and Zigzags.][16]

[NeoWave. Part 17.][17][ ][17][Extended rules of logic for complex
corrective patterns.][17]

[NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance. Compaction
procedures. Power ratings.][18]

[NeoWave. Part 19. Progress labels applied in trending impulses][19].

[NeoWave. Part 20. Application of progress labels to terminal
impulses.][20]

[NeoWave. Part 21. Channeling in impulses and Fibonacci
relationships.][21]

### Progress labels and their positions in corrective patterns

Remember, progress labels in corrective patterns are A-C letters that
mark waves within a correction. I will cover the specific features of
flat corrections depending on the wave properties. I will also define
the post-effects of different progress labels.

### Progress labels for a B-Failure

Remember, a B-wave is a failure, when the (B) wave retraces 61.8%–81% of
the (A) wave. If so, there are the following post-effects:

  1. A B-failure almost always takes place when the (A) wave is a double zigzag or double combination (completing with a triangle).
  2. The (C) wave should retrace at least 61.8% of the wave (B). Ideally, wave (C) should retrace wave (B) by 100%, otherwise, the pattern falls into the double failure category.
  3. Waves (A) and (C) may relate 61.8%.

This pattern can occur as:

  * Waves 2, 4, (A), (B) of any pattern;
  * Waves (C), (D), (E) of a horizontal triangle;
  * Part of a rare running double flat.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in
flat corrections][22]

There is an example above. The chart displays a B-failure pattern. It is
clear that wave (B) retraces 61.8% of wave (A). Wave (C) is 100% of wave
(B) and, accordingly, wave (C) is 61.8% of wave (A). So, the progress
labels for a B-failure are met.

### Progress labels for a C-failure

A C-failure occurs whenever wave (C) fails to retrace all of wave (B).
There are the following characteristics:

  1. Wave (B) usually retraces all, or almost all, of wave (A).
  2. Wave (С) should definitely not be the shortest segment in the correction and very frequently it will consume the longest period of time of the three corrective segments. Additionally, it can be equal to wave (A) or wave (B).
  3. A complex C-failure is often a terminal impulse.
  4. C-wave failures which are less than 61.8% of wave (В) should be considered extremely __rare. When it does happen, the (В) wave should take the most time, with wave (A) and (С) equal in time.
  5. In a complex C-failure pattern, the (B) wave should subdivide more completely than wave (А). Usually, it will be a double zigzag. The (С) wave should be either 61.8% of wave (А) or complete in a zone 61.8% of wave (А) taken from the beginning of wave (А). If the (С) wave exceeds 61.8% of wave (A), the pattern refers to irregular failures.

This pattern can occur as:

  * Wave: Any 2, 4, a, b.
  * Wave: 5 of a terminal Impulse.

​​​​​​​![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress
labels in flat corrections][23]

As an example, let us study a C-wave failure and analyze its progress
labels. It is clear from the above chart that the (B) wave retraces a
little more than 100% of wave (A), which corresponds to the first
rule.![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress
labels in flat corrections][24]

It is clear from the above chart that the wave (С) takes more time than
wave (B).

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in
flat corrections][25]

This chart displays the relation between wave (С) and wave (A). Wave (С)
is equal to wave (A). so the second rule for the progress labels of the
C-wave failure.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in
flat corrections][26]

It is clear from the chart that wave (С) is a little more than 61.8% of
wave (B), which is quite a common case, according to the fourth rule of
a C-failure.

The fifth rule can not be applied to our example, as it is relevant only
for a complex pattern. In this example, a C-failure flat is simple.
Remember, a complex pattern is one, whose at least one wave is composed
of three monowaves or more or includes another pattern. To study the
complexity rule in detail, read this [article][18].

### Progress labels for a Common Flat

In a Common pattern, all of the waves will be approximately equal in
price. This pattern must meet the following requirements:

  1. Wave (B) should be between 81% and 100% of wave (A).
  2. Wave (B) will, the majority of the time, be the most time-consuming of the three segments and will be more complex than wave (A).
  3. Wave (С) should be at least 100% of wave (B).
  4. Wave (С) should move slightly beyond the end of wave-a, but not by more than 10 or 20%.
  5. Wave (С) should have an impulse structure.

A common flat pattern can occur in the following places:

  * Waves, 2, 4, a, b of any pattern;
  * Waves c,d,e of a horizontal triangle **;**
  * A part of a rare running double flat.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in
flat corrections][27]

As an example, let us look at a common flat pattern that is a (B) wave
in a larger pattern. It is clear from the above chart that wave (B) of
the flat is between 81% and 100% of wave (A), so the first rule of
progress labels is met.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in
flat corrections][28]

The time periods of wave (A) are marked with the dark green areas in the
chart. As you see wave (С) is close wave (A) in [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) of time, the (B)
wave is the most time-consuming of the three segments, which corresponds
to the second rule.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in
flat corrections][29]

It is clear from the above chart that wave C, according to the third
rule, is not less than 100% of wave (B). Besides, it is beyond the (B)
wave by about 20% (the blue horizontal area), which corresponds to the
fourth rule.

Like in the previous example this flat is not a complex one, and so, the
fifth rule doesn’t apply to it. All the rules for progress labels of a
common flat have been met.

### Progress labels for a Double Failure flat

Remember, the typical features of this rare pattern are that the (B)
wave shouldn’t retrace more than 81% of the (A) wave, and wave (С)
should be less than 100% of wave (B). There are the following
characteristics of a double failure flat:

  1. Wave (A) in a double failure is likely to be a double combination, followed by a strong zigzag for wave (B). In a rare instance, wave (A) would be a triple combination, the (B) wave will a double zigzag or a combination.
  2. A double failure flat can look like a horizontal triangle. In a double failure, the (C) wave is an impulse pattern(a five). In a horizontal triangle, the C wave is a corrective pattern (a three).
  3. In some cases, the (A) wave of a double failure also looks like a double failure. It usually occurs when it is a double combination that ends with a horizontal triangle.
  4. Wave (С) wave will generally be 61.8% of wave (А).

A double failure can occur as:

  * Wave 2, 4 of any pattern;
  * Wave (A) in an irregular or triangle pattern;
  * Wave (B) of a zigzag, common or elongated pattern;
  * The first corrective phase of a rare running double flat.

Unfortunately, a double failure is an extremely rare pattern, so I
haven’t found a real example. However, I am sure you will find real
examples of such a pattern on the price chart of [Bitcoin][30] or any
other [trading instrument][31]. I will be glad if you share your
discoveries in the comments.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in
flat corrections][32]

As an example, I present a schematically outlined double-failure. Wave
(A) is a double combination composed of a zigzag and a horizontal
triangle, whose borders are marked with yellow lines. The double
combination is followed by a strong zigzag for wave (B). Besides, wave
(B) is less than 81% of wave (A).

The double failure resembles a developing horizontal triangle, as it is
contracting (pink trend lines, 0-B and A-C). We see that this is a true
double failure as its wave (С) is a five-wave pattern.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in
flat corrections][33]

Wave (С) in the double failure retraces less than 61.8% of wave (A).

### Progress labels for an Elongated Flat

An elongated flat has the following characteristics:

  1. Wave (С) must __be more than 138.2% of wave (B) (preferably, more than 161.8%).
  2. Wave (A) and wave (B) should be similar in price and/or time. It is also accepted when wave (B) is at least 61.8% of wave (А). Waves (A) and (B) can also relate by 61.8% in time.
  3. Elongated flats almost always appear in triangles as segments or even whole legs. Therefore, an elongated flat is an early signal of a triangle forming.
  4. Very often in an elongated flat, the (С) wave will consume the same amount of time as waves (A) and (B) combined.

An elongated flat occurs as follows:

  * Wave 1,3 or 5 of a Terminal Impulse
  * Wave (A), (B), (C), (D) of a Horizontal Triangle
  * Wave: (E) of an Expanding Horizontal Triangle;
  * It could be the first corrective phase of a double flat which will probably be the entire leg of a horizontal triangle or __terminal impulse.

Let us analyze progress labels for an elongated flat on a real example.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in
flat corrections][34]

The chart displays an elongated flat, whose waves (A) and (B) are
similar in price but different in time.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in
flat corrections][35]

It is clear from the above chart that wave (С) is 161.8% of wave (В),
which corresponds to the first rule for the progress labels for an
elongated flat.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in
flat corrections][36]

In this pattern, the (С) wave takes the same amount of time as waves (A)
and (B) combined, which corresponds to the fourth rule.

### Progress labels for an Irregular Pattern

Progress labels of an irregular pattern must meet the following
requirements:

  1. Wave (B) must be between 101% and 138.2% of wave (A).
  2. Wave (C) must be at least 101% of wave (B)
  3. The (B) wave will almost always be a zigzag, while wave a will usually be some type of flat. The (C) wave must be impulsive. If wave (C) is corrective, this may be an expanding triangle or a contracting triangle with a large (C) wave.

An irregular pattern may be found as:

  * Wave 2, 4, (A), (B) of any pattern;
  * Wave (C), (D), (E) in a horizontal triangle.

Now, let see [how to](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-trading-how-to/) analyze progress labels in an irregular pattern on
the example of the [BTCUSD][30] chart.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in
flat corrections][37]

The two-hour chart displays such a correction. The (B) wave is a little
less than 138.2% of wave (A), which corresponds to the first rule for
progress labels of an irregular pattern.![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by
Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in flat corrections][38]

According to the second rule for progress labels in an irregular
pattern, wave (C) should be more than 101% of wave (B). As you see from
the above chart, this rule is also met in our example.

The third rule applies only to complex patterns. As the irregular
pattern is simple in our example, we do not check for this rule.
However, I suggest you try to do it yourself. Try to find an irregular
pattern on the chart of your favorite [trading instrument][39]. Share
your results in the comments. I will be glad to appreciate your success
and answer your questions.

### Progress labels in an Irregular Failure pattern

This pattern should meet the following requirements:

  1. Wave (B) must be larger in price than wave (A) (preferably, it should be 132.8% of wave (A)).
  2. Wave (C) must not retrace all of wave (B)
  3. Wave (C) will generally relate to the a-wave (price and time) by equality or __the Fibonacci ratio

This pattern should occur as one of the Progress Labels below:

  * Wave 2,4 before an extended wave;
  * Wave (В) (before an elongated wave of a flat;
  * Wave (В) of a zigzag in which wave (С) is at least __161.8% of wave (А).

Now, let us analyze progress labels in an irregular failure pattern on
the real [Bitcoin][30] price chart.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in
flat corrections][40]

The above chart displays an irregular failure pattern. It is clear that
the (B) wave is greater than wave (A) in price and is about 132.8% of
the (A) wave, which corresponds to the first rule. Besides, wave (C)
doesn’t retrace 100% of wave (B), so, the second rule is met.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in
flat corrections][41]

It is also clear that the () wave is roughly equal to wave (A) in time.
So, the third rule for the progress labels in the irregular failure flat
is also observed.

### Progress labels in a Running Correction

The running correction is the most powerful standard correction, so it
imposes very specific requirements on post-market action:

  1. The price movement after the running correction rises or falls quicker than the pattern immediately before the running correction of the same degree.
  2. Wave (B) should be much greater than waves (A) and (C).
  3. The (B) wave does not always relate to wave (A) but, if it does it will probably be 261.8% of wave (A).
  4. Wave (A) and wave (C) will tend toward equality in price and time.

Places where Running Corrections can __occur:

  * Wave 2 before an Extended 3rd wave;
  * Wave 4 before an extended 5th wave (rare cases)
  * Wave (B) right before an elongated C-wave, and __in which the whole A-B-C is probably the entire __leg of a triangle __ or one of the completed phases of a complex correction which is the entire leg of a Triangle.
  * Wave (B) in a zigzag that is part of a triangle (of one or two degrees higher).
  * Wave (Х) that could occur right before the longest corrective group of a complex corrective series (it is very rare).

Let us study a real example of a running correction using the
[][30][BTCUSD][30] chart.

![LiteForex: NeoWave theory by Glenn Neely. Part 22. Progress labels in
flat corrections][42]

The schematically outlined chart above shows that waves (A) and (C) tend
toward equality in price and time. Besides, wave (B) is about 261.8% of
wave (A), which corresponds to the above rules 2,3, and 4. Besides,
immediately after the running correction, the price quickly goes up,
which corresponds to rule 1.

It is clear from this example that such a correction can be mistakenly
interpreted as the beginning of a new impulse pattern. To avoid
mistakes, you should know the construction rules and the corresponding
progress labels. I cover progress labels for impulsive patterns in [
][19][Part 19][19] and [Part 20][20]. In the following articles, I will
continue covering progress labels applied to triangles and zigzags.

The knowledge of progress labels is very important, as it helps not to
only identify the patterns but also to make up an accurate forecast. You
should also consolidate the learning through practical application.
Apply these techniques in practice and test everything in trading. The
[LiteForex][31] [functions](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/basic-functions/) are more than enough for this. If you haven’t
yet chosen your broker, it’s high time you started trading with
LiteForex. Besides, there is a wonderful opportunity to win a dream
house, a brand new car, and cool Apple gadgets in the [dream draw][43]
with the total prize fund of 350 000 USD.

* * *

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][44]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][45] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![NeoWave. Part 22. Progress labels and their application to flat
corrections][46]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b/
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a/
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-10-retracement-rule-6-conditions-b-c-and-d/
   11. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-11-retracement-rule-7/
   12. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-12-impulsions-and-the-rules-to-analyze-impulse-wave-patterns/
   13. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-13-corrections-rules-to-identify-a-correction/
   14. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-14-corrections-triangles-rules-to-identify-triangles/
   15. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-15-basic-and-advanced-rules-of-logic-to-analyze-triangles/
   16. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-16-extended-rules-of-logic-for-zigzags-and-flat-corrections/
   17. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-17-extended-rules-of-logic-for-complex-corrections-exceptions-to-the-rules-2020-05-07/
   18. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-18-rules-of-complexity-and-balance-compaction-procedures-power-ratings/
   19. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-19-progress-labels-and-application-of-progress-labels-to-trending-impulses/
   20. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-20-application-of-progress-labels-to-terminal-impulses/
   21. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-21-channeling-in-impulses-and-fibonacci-relationships/
   22. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=121b33eda2d92dd6717197c78a2039ba
   23. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=d90bec8873d272dc7934edd9a287252c
   24. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=f87b4c3f9a9435552fae36ef3d65109a
   25. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=acbd8cabe806a2d3e58238ad243fdbf7
   26. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=df0ef4d979498a2ec81fe65921b42bee
   27. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=286d127135b513f067bfdb8c3af8c258
   28. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=4d4b73a88d5406ce896660feb809f543
   29. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=ce914b0e89c84147d036aeb1bd5f489a
   30. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD&returnUrl=true
   31. my.liteforex.com/trading
   32. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=02cfee8afb9d9478eb364345a0f88b52
   33. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_10.jpg?w=30&s=a4a526e9ac8a49b46064a334ee808541
   34. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_11.jpg?w=30&s=66b4ec8dfc919177c739985a40ab5066
   35. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_12.jpg?w=30&s=88e8dafa34274fe5632e514f7e2c89bc
   36. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_13.jpg?w=30&s=f56276cb1cec5081a4bf7beedc081a65
   37. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_14.jpg?w=30&s=b8207d1b595a9ed922e7fa41bfc121b3
   38. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_15.jpg?w=30&s=09f82c5cb5505bb81f3b581ba3dc1be9
   39. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=currency
   40. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_16.jpg?w=30&s=514656f93f1eeb6052e0979a0e9a0de8
   41. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_17.jpg?w=30&s=04aac20cacc608d5ff9a528d55c2ac1f
   42. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_19.jpg?w=30&s=661262c7fa3efa7ac398ef45d68977b4
   43. www.liteforex.com/contests/dream-draw/
   44. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-22-progress-labels-and-their-application-to-flat-corrections&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   45. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-22-progress-labels-and-their-application-to-flat-corrections&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   46. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.24/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=d7e07cf7ad64102b965e0f6d679146bc