+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-02-12"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, EURUSD for February 15-19 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, EURUSD for February 15-19 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=22.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-02-12

2021-02-12

Medium-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD 12.02.2021Alex Rodionov

I welcome my colleagues! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest trading
signals for traders who trade in medium-term trends.

According to the American Petroleum Institute (API) and the US Energy
Information Administration (EIA), oil is growing amid declining US
inventories.

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for next week: USCrude analysis

According to the American Petroleum Institute (API) and the US Energy
Information Administration (EIA), oil is growing amid declining US
inventories. Oil inventories fell by 3.5 million barrels over the week
to 474.1 million barrels.

Meanwhile, the oil demand is growing and will continue to grow because
the world economy is slowly but surely emerging from the crisis, and the
vaccination program is starting to bear its first fruits.

According to the margin zones' methodology, the medium-term uptrend
continues. Its main target is Target Zone 5 [59.82 - 59.31].

The prices are now being corrected. If the correction continues next
week, the price will reach the trend key support [54.25 - 53.80]. It
would be reasonable to look for new purchases in this zone.

Breakout of the Target Zone 5 resistance will set the next growth target
for traders in the Target Zone 6 [64.92 - 64.41].

### [USCrude][1] Trading tips for the upcoming week:

Open buy positions according to the pattern in [54.25 - 53.80].
TakeProfit: 58.70. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for next week: XAUUSD analysis

The gold bulls did not manage to break out the resistance area 1840 -
1830, formed by Fibonacci retracement levels 61.8 and 50. As a result,
the corrective growth was stopped. Now there is a fall, the target of
which is to update the last week's low and reach Target Zone 2 [1759 -
1749].

Based on these facts, next week, it is reasonable to hold gold sell
trades entered in the resistance zone outlined above with a stop above
the February 10's high.

The breakout of the February 10's high will lead to the continuation of
the medium-term correction to the area of ​​the medium-term downtrend
[1906 - 1895] border.

### [XAUUSD][2] Trading tips for the upcoming week:

Hold sales in the zone of [1840 - 1830]. TakeProfit: 1785. StopLoss:
1856.5.

* * *

## Euro/dollar price forecast for next week: EURUSD analysis

The euro downtrend continues. This week the traders reached the trend
key resistance [1.2128 - 1.2112]. The price didn't break out the zone.
Therefore, the search for sales according to the pattern for the next
week is the best scenario for a trader in the medium term.

The target for short trades will be February's low in the Target Zone 2
[1.1981 - 1.1962].

The breakout and consolidation of the price at two US trading sessions
above Target Zone 2 will lead to a trend reversal up. In this case, look
for entry points on corrections with the target in the upper Target Zone
2 [1.2288 - 1.2272].

### [EURUSD][3] Trading tips for the upcoming week:

  1. Sell according to the pattern in the zone of [1.2128 - 1.2112]. TakeProfit: Target Zone 2 [1.1981 - 1.1962].

  2. If the price consolidates above zone [1.2128 - 1.2112], buy on the correction. TakeProfit: [1.2288 - 1.2272]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of USCrude in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-12022021&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=medium-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-12022021&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus