+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-22"
description = "Forecast for yen price for 22 October 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for yen price for 22 October 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-10-22

2021-10-22

Will the yen catch at a straw? Forecast as of 22.10.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The yen continues collapsing, and finding weighty arguments for a
pullback becomes harder every day. However, the government's discontent
and inflated speculative shorts in the Japanese currency may step in.
Will they? Let’s find that out and make a trading plan for the [USDJPY.
][1]

## Monthly fundamental forecast for yen

Hasty climbers have sudden falls. That doesn't seem to concern the
[USDJPY][1], though. An energy crisis, a flight of capital from Japan,
and a divergence in the Fed's and the BoJ's monetary policies made the
quotes soar to their highest since the end of 2018. However, the higher
the USD climbs against the yen, the more they talk the bullish trend
will start to fade out soon.

The yen lost 2.5% against the greenback over the last month and more
than 10% since the beginning of the year, thus becoming the worst G10
performer. Since imports of energy resources have a singificant share in
Japan's foreign trade structure, the weakness of its currency is
consistent with record-high coal and gas prices.

The [USDJPY][1] buyers are inspired by bond yields, including treasury
bond ones, soaring amid global inflation's spike and expectations that
the world's leading central banks will normalize monetary policies. As
the Bank of Japan doesn't plan to abandon its rate targeting [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) in
the local bond market, bond yields are becoming more and more differing,
making capital flow from Asia to Europe and North America.

The Bank of America believes the divergence in the Fed's and the BoJ's
monetary policies and the related capital flow from Japan to the USA
will help the [USDJPY][1] rally to 116 by the end of 2021 and to 120 in
2022. Societe Generale disagrees, pointing to a tight connection between
the yen's reversal risk and US inflation expectations, which have gone
so far away that the Fed is trying hard to slow them down. According to
the French company, the upward movement might lose momentum, and the
pair will correct unless the dollar breaks through a level of ¥115
shortly.

### Yen risk reversal and US inflation expectations

 _Source: Bloomberg._

There are a few indications that the yen may retrace soon: Japanese net
shorts are inflated in the derivatives market; the [USDJPY][1] would
trade beneath the current levels when the US/Japan bond yield difference
was the same as now; Tokyo isn't glad about the yen's fast weakening.
Vice-Minister of Cabinet Office Yoshihiko Isozaki said a stable currency
rate was crucial to the economy, so the government continued keeping an
eye on Forex developments.

There's a long-life factor as well. After the impact of lower cellphone
prices on inflation remains in the past, Japan's base CPI may reach
1.4%. That will give reasons for talking about monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)
normalization and support the yen.

### Japan's, US', and eurozone's inflation trends



 _Source: Bloomberg._

### Monthly trading plan for [USDJPY][1] ****

However, the gap between the central banks' rates might have grown even
larger by that time and thus push the[USDJPY][1]'s quotes higher. The
first out of two targets of 113 and 115 set in the [previous article][2]
has been reached. I recommend opening long positions in the direction of
115 - 116 on retracements from support levels of 113.7 - 113.8 and 113 -
113.2.

## Price chart of USDJPY in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDJPY
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/yen-is-above-law-forecast-as-of-06102021/