+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-10-22"
description = "US dollar price forecast 22 October 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 22 October 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=12.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-10-22

2021-10-22

Dollar lives to fight another day! Forecast as of 22.10.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

No trend goes without a correction. The matter is how deep the
correction will be. The [EURUSD][1] downtrend is not going to reverse,
and traders wonder how high the price will rise in the correction. Let
us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly US dollar fundamental forecast

Is it relevant to sell the US dollar if the global economic growth is
slowing down, and the Fed could raise the federal funds rate twice in
2022? In the second half of October, some [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s have expected
central banks to tighten monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) earlier than previously
suggested and faster than they wished. However, the Fed can well do the
same. Some could argue the Fed should act slower than other central
banks. Nonetheless, Jerome Powell and his colleagues have different
targets and the targets should be met soon.

According to PIMCO, the US economy is accelerating. This is facilitated
by several reasons. The number of COVID-19 cases is decreasing,
consumers are actively spending their savings, the proportion of fully
vaccinated populations is increasing. The company reports an increase in
activity in the tourism and recreation sectors. Besides, contracts to
sell the US previously owned homes increased by 7% in September, and the
number of jobless claims fell to 290,000 in the week ended October 15.
Therefore, things are not as bad in the USA.

An increase in the US GDP rate and strong corporate reporting (according
to FactSet, 81% of the 80 reported companies in the broad stock index
base outperformed forecasts) allowed the [S&P 500][2] to hit its 55th
record close in 2021. But what if it’s because of the US exclusivity,
not because of the global growth acceleration? If so, the US stock
market rally will not support the [EURUSD][1] bulls. Furthermore, the
higher the US stock indexes, the better US financial conditions. So, the
Fed will have more opportunities to normalize its monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/).

### Dynamics of financial conditions in USA and euro area



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

The weakness of the banking system and the lower valuation of European
equities compared to American peers contribute to tighter financial
conditions in the euro area than in the USA. This limits the actions of
the ECB. Although financial markets want Christine Lagarde and her
colleagues to raise the interest rates in 2023 or even 2022 amid
inflation rise, the Governing Council will hardly do so until 2024. The
divergence in monetary policies will continue to support the [EURUSD][1]
bears, so the correction up is rather limited.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

At its October 28 meeting, the ECB is likely to maintain its mantra
about the temporary nature of high inflation, which will allow it to
leave the door open for expanding regular quantitative easing program
after the PEPP ends in March. At the same time, Christine Lagarde will
put pressure on the markets, which have expected the ECB to signal the
interest rate hike over the next 12-18 months. These factors, along with
weak data on the euro-area PMI for October, could be a reason to sell
the [EURUSD][1] on the breakout of the support at 1.1615. After all, the
range of medium-term consolidation has not yet been determined. It could
be 1.155 - 1.18 and 1.145 - 1.168.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX