+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-13"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 13.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 13.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 13, 2020

May 13, 2020

Dollar demands a giftDmitri Demidenko

## The Fed’s rate cut below zero could be a real gift for the US economy

Everything has a price to pay. If the Fed claims there are necessary
extra tax deductions to decrease the unemployment rate from its
potential peak at 20% to 9%-10%, then it could give a gift to the US
economy and lower the federal funds rate below zero. President Donald
Trump said the US economy deserves such a gift, and the market is more
responsive to his comments than to the announcement of the FOMC
officials about the harm of negative interest rates.

The cure can really be more harmful than the illness. If the federal
funds rate drops below zero, not only [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s and banks will suffer,
but the entire huge industry of the US money market funds. Nonetheless,
not everybody shares this opinion. For example, JP Morgan citing the
ECB’s experience believes that a moderate cut of the interest rates into
the negative area will yield more positive than harm. The positive
resulted from the easing of the financial conditions and lower
fragmentation risks in Europe outweighs the negative from the drop in
the interbank market activity.

Besides, the U.S. has to fund the costs of the huge volume of Treasuries
issuance. The U.S. budget deficit soared to a record of $1.935 trillion
in the 12 months through April, and the Treasury is planning to issue $3
trillion in Treasuries in the second quarter and $4.5 trillion in
2019/2020 fiscal year. If buyers pay those debts, it will be a real gift
for the U.S. economy. Also, the U.S. dollar will go weaker, as it should
be pressed down over the long-term prospect by both the huge debt and
the excessively boosted the Fed’s balance sheet.

 **Dynamics of central banks’ balance sheets**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 13.05.2020][1]

 _Source: Financial Times_

If Congress is willing to meet the Fed’s claims on the expansion of the
fiscal stimulus (House Democrats prepared the plan on an additional
$3-trillion aid package), will the central bank be so amendable in
response? The strangest thing, to my mind, is Donald Trump’s behavior in
this situation. Earlier, he spared no money to draw the US GDP to 3%,
without thinking about the consequences, but now he says the states,
which do not manage their budgets effectively, should not receive the
federal assistance, he also holds back the negotiations. Could it result
from the fact that the bill was proposed by the Democrats, not the
Republicans?

After all, the talks about potential Fed’s negative interest rates have
not been enough to send the US dollar down. The [EUR/USD][2] bears have
quickly gained back control after Trump ordered the main federal
government pension fund, managing about $600 billion, not to invest in
the Chinese stocks, based on national security concerns. The US-China
trade war hasn’t yet ended, which, together with the concerns about the
second wave of the pandemic, weighs on the S&P 500. The crash of the __
US stock market on May 12 sent the euro down. If the euro goes below the
zone of $1.084-1.0845, bulls will have serious problems. __

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][3]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][4] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar demands a gift][5]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/balanses-central-banks-13-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=343cc8cf3f37c336a349754e24da8e07
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-demands-a-gift&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   4. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-demands-a-gift&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-13-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=2cf81096194031ca931a6f27d20a5bf2