+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-13"
description = "NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance. Compaction procedures. Power ratings."
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance. Compaction procedures. Power ratings."
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=10.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 13, 2020

May 13, 2020

NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance. Compaction
procedures. Power ratings.Mikhail Hypov

## Rules of complexity and balance, principles of wave compaction, and
power rating for each wave pattern.

Dear friends!

In the [previous training article][1], I explained the wave isolation
procedures, the way to define the series of simple monowaves. In this
article, I will continue explaining the rules of wave grouping into more
complex formations.

If you are not familiar with the NeoWave theory, I suggest you should
read the all the articles in the NeoWave series, based on Glenn Neely’s
book Mastering Elliott Wave, starting from the first one:

[Neo Wave theory. Part 1. Rules for creating charts][2].

[Neo Wave theory. Part 2. Basic information on Polywaves and Structure
Labels. ][3]

[NeoWave. Part 3. Retracement Rule 1.][4]

[NeoWave theory. Part 4. Retracement Rule 2.][5]

[NeoWave theory. Part 5. Retracement Rule 3.][6]

[NeoWave. Part 6. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “a” and “b”][7].

[NeoWave. Part 7. Retracement rule 4. Conditions “c”, “d” and “e”][8].

[NeoWave. Part 8. Retracement rule 5. Conditions “a” and “b”][9].

[NeoWave. Part 9. Retracement rule 5. Retracement rule 6, condition
“a”][10].

[NeoWave. Part 10. Retracement Rule 6. Conditions “b”, “c”, and
“d”][11].

[NeoWave. Part 11. Retracement rule 7.][12]

[NeoWave. Part 12. Impulsions and the rules to analyze impulse wave
patterns. ][13]

[NeoWave. Part 13. Corrections. Rules to identify a correction.][14]

[NeoWave. Part 14. Triangles. Rules to identify triangles.][15]

[NeoWave. Part 15. Basic and advanced rules of logic to analyze
triangles][16].

[NeoWave. Part 16. Extended rules of logic for Flats and Zigzags.][17]

[NeoWave. Part 17.][1][ ][1][Extended rules of logic for complex
corrective patterns.][1]



As you already know, any completed Elliott pattern, no matter how large
or small, can be handled as and labeled as a single three-wave
Correction (:3) or a five-wave Impulse (:5). Such isolated wave-groups
should be defined.

An important role in the formation of polywaves is played by the so-
called structural series, which are familiar sequences of structure
labels assigned to monowaves. Elliott wave patterns are based on these
series. This procedure is called compaction in the NeoWave theory.

Below, I present the sequences of position indicators (I covered
position indicators in the [second part][3] of the NeoWave series), and
the exact number of corrections and impulsions (threes and fives) that
compose different Elliott waves.

### Standard patterns

  * Impulsion – :5 – :F3 – :?5 – :F3 – :L5.
  * Zigzag – :5 – :F3 – :?5.
  * Flat – :F3 – :C3 – :?5.
  * Triangle – :F3 – :c3 – :c3 – :?3 – :?3.
  * Terminal – :F3 – :c3 – :c3 – :?3 – :L3.

When the last structure label in a corrective sequence doesn’t contain
the position indicator L, the pattern should be compacted into a three
and analyze it as one of the non-standard patterns.

### Non-standard patterns

Double grouping :3 ++ x:c3 (smaller than the previous three)++ :3 (it
can be any standard correction).

Double three running 3 ++ x:c3 (larger than the previous three) ++ :3
(could be a standard flat, Zigzag, triangle, or an expanding triangle if
the first three is a triangle).

Any triple grouping :3 ++ x:c3 (shouldn’t be equal to the previous
three) ++ :3 (could be a flat, an expanding triangle, or a zigzag. If
x:c3 is larger than the previous three, could not occur before or after
x:c3) ++ x:c3 (shouldn’t be equal to the previous three) ++ :3 (can be
any standard correction).

Remember, structure labels under the NeoWave are divided in two ways,
using “-” and “+”. The “-” sign is used to divide the segments within
the same wave pattern, “++” is used to divide two separate patterns and
the x-waves, which occur between waves in complex corrections.

Any Elliott pattern should correspond to one of the above structure
series. Let study this on the example.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance.
Compaction procedures. Power ratings.][18]

The above chart displays an impulse, whose each wave is a polywave
composed of a few monowaves. Let us check if this pattern corresponds to
the structure list of “:5 – :F3 – :?5 – :F3 – :L5” typical for
impulsions.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance.
Compaction procedures. Power ratings.][19]

Let us see the first segment of this pattern, it should be a five. In
fact, this is a standard impulse of a smaller degree with the extended
fifth wave. I marked the beginnings and the ends of the segments within
the first wave with red circles.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance.
Compaction procedures. Power ratings.][20]

The second segment, according to the structure label “:F3” is the first
three, which is the standard corrective wave occurring between two
impulse waves.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance.
Compaction procedures. Power ratings.][21]

The third segment is a five that is, according to the structure labels
described in the [second part ][3]of the NeoWave series, can be the
final phase of an impulse or a complex correction. Note that the
segments of this five are also polywaves.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance.
Compaction procedures. Power ratings.][22]

The fourth wave is the first three, whose segments are composed of a few
polywaves.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance.
Compaction procedures. Power ratings.][23]

The final, fifth, wave is a “:L5”, the last five – the wave that
concludes one or several larger Elliott patterns.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance.
Compaction procedures. Power ratings.][24]

The minimum requirements to confirm the authenticity of such a wave is
that the price should break through the trendline connecting the ending
points of m(-2) and m0 (in our case, waves (2) and (4)) in a period of
time that is no longer than that it took to form wave C with the label
“:L5” (plus one time unit).

The trendline in the chart is green, the period that is taken to form
“:L5” (plus one time unit) is marked with the green area, and the
period, during which the following waves break through the trendline, is
marked with the blue area. As the blue area is clearly smaller than the
green one, so the minimum requirement for a “:L5” is met, and so the
final segment of an impulse is likely to be defined correctly.

Once we have defined the series of waves, we need to apply some more
tests to check the authenticity. A part of requirements, I described in
the section devoted to requirements for different Elliott patterns. The
rest of them will be described later.

### Rule of similarity and balance

I used to mention this rule earlier. Now, I will cover it in detail. In
the NeoWave theory, it is suggested to combine waves that meet the rule
of similarity wither in price or time [terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/) or both.

Price similarity _ ****_between two adjacent waves exists if the smaller
of the two waves should be no less than one-third in the price of the
larger wave. For time similarity _ ****_to be present between two
adjacent waves, the shorter time pattern should not be less than one-
third of the longer time pattern

If in any comparison, neither of the above rules is obeyed, the
likelihood two adjacent waves are of the same degree is very little.
When two waves are not of the same degree, they cannot be directly or
immediately connected to form a larger Elliott pattern. There is
required compaction of several smaller waves.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance.
Compaction procedures. Power ratings.][25]

The above chart displays a monowave in the green area, it is less than
one-third of the wave within the blue area, both in time and price
[terms](https://www.fintechee.com/terms/). So, we can’t combine these waves.

### Compaction procedures (wave grouping)

The compaction technique is used to reduce a completed series of mono-,
poly-, multi-, or microwaves into a single impulsive ****or corrective
****structure (a three or a five). Due to the dynamic nature of this
concept, any completed Elliott pattern, no matter how large or small,
can be handled as and labeled as a single corrective (:3) or impulsive
(:5) pattern. The technique must be applied after the pattern has been
tested using the construction rules, rules of logic, and so on.

All Elliott formations can be compacted based on their structure series

  * Trending impulse: 5-3-5-3-5 = “:5”
  * Zigzag: 5-3-5 = “:3”
  * Flat: 3-3-5 = “:3”
  * Triangle: 3-3-3-3-3 = “:3”
  * Terminal impulse: 3-3-3-3-3 = “:5”
  * All patterns that contain x-waves = “:3”

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance.
Compaction procedures. Power ratings.][26]

Let us see the compaction procedure on the example of the first wave of
the impulse analyzed above. It is clear from the chart that it is a
terminal impulse composed of several monowaves (waves 2 and 4 share some
of the same price territories). Therefore, it can be reduced to a
compacted five that perfectly fits in the impulse of a higher degree.

Sometimes, after the compaction of a series of monowaves, there are not
enough compacted patterns to combine them in a larger pattern. In this
case, you should apply the mono- or polywaves close to the compacted
structures. For example, you have grouped two compacted formations from
a series of mono- or polywaves. In this case, you should consider one or
three close waves, to combine them in an Elliott pattern. This procedure
is called a regrouping.

There is also the concept of integration in the NeoWave theory.
Integration is a term used to describe the transference of shorter-term,
compacted, wave structure to longer-term charts allowing larger
formations to slowly be combined together. Basically, this is what we
did in the above example of grouping waves in an impulse.

### Complexity rule

This rule is used in the analysis of complex wave patterns composed of
many monowaves and monowave groups. At the early stages, it is very
simple to identify the level of a pattern’s complexity. For example, a
single monowave has a zero complexity level. Arranging three or five
monowaves into a polywave creates complexity level 1.

If there is at least one point where one of the trending patterns in a
polywave noticeably divides into a smaller Impulse sequence, turning the
polywave into a multiwave. In this case, the complexity level is 2. In
rare instances, a multiwave can include more than one impulse wave.

Let see how the complexity level is determined on an example.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance.
Compaction procedures. Power ratings.][27]

First, we need to find out if the wave being analyzed is segmented. As
it is a five-wave impulse pattern, it is segmented by definition, so,
the complexity level is 1. At the next step, we should identify the most
complex structure within the pattern. In our example, it is the fifth
wave, which is likely to be an extension.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance.
Compaction procedures. Power ratings.][28]

The fifth wave is a five-wave impulse pattern. I marked its segments
with red circles at the starting and ending points of smaller waves.
Among the sub-waves within the fifth wave, the most complex and clear
structure is presented by the third wave. Let study it in more detail.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance.
Compaction procedures. Power ratings.][28]

I marked with green the five-wave structure of the third wave that is a
part of the fifth wave within the large impulse. According to the
complexity rule, the complexity level of this pattern develops to 3. In
this timeframe, complexity level 3 is final, as the smaller waves are
monowaves. By the way, all waves with complexity level 3 and higher are
microwaves. They must contain at least one multiwaves and one polywave.

It must be noted that the complexity level of double and triple
combinations corresponds to the complexity level of the most complex
wave within this combination. For example, in the case of a double
zigzag, we should first define the complexity level of the most complex
zigzag.

### Degree

In the training series devoted to Williams and Prechter, I already
covered the concept of degree, so I will briefly touch it here. The
concept of degree is the following: when several waves are combined in a
larger pattern, there appears a pattern of a higher degree. In the
Elliot description of degree extended by Neely there are the following
wave degrees:

  * Sub-Micro;
  * Micro;
  * Sub-Minuette;
  * Minuette;
  * Minute;
  * Minor;
  * Intermediate;
  * Primary;
  * Cycle;
  * Supercycle;
  * Grand Supercycle.

Originally, the Sub-Minuette degree is applied to the monowaves in the
chart, as there could be found smaller formations that will require a
Micro or Sub Micro degree.

You can combine only the patterns of the same degree. One of the
techniques to define the similarity of the degree is the complexity
level. If the patterns have roughly equal complexity, they should be
considered as patterns of the same degree.

### Power rating

Any Elliott pattern attaches some power to the following waves, which
determines further market behavior. Some corrections are so weak or
strong that they can not conclude larger patterns. For example, the
beginning of the wave, which completes upward and has a positive power
rating from +1 to + 3, can’t be reached the next wave of the same
degree. Below, there is a table of power ratings of different types of
corrections (patterns come in decreasing order of power).





Pattern

|





When the pattern completes upward

|





When the pattern completes downward  
  
---|---|---  
  




Strong non-standard formations  
  
Triple Zigzag

|

+3

|

-3  
  
Triple Combination

|

+3

|

-3  
  
Triple flat

|

+3

|

-3  
  
Double zigzag

|

+2

|

-2  
  
Double combination

|

+2

|

-2  
  
Double flat

|

+2

|

-2  
  
Standard Formations  
  
Elongated zigzag

|

+1 (in a triangle = 0)

|

-2  
  
Elongated flat

|

+1 (in a triangle = 0)

|

-1  
  
Zigzag

|

+0

|

-0  
  
B-failure

|

+0

|

-0  
  
Common

|

+0

|

-0  
  
C-failure

|

-1 ( in a triangle = 0)

|

+1  
  
Irregular

|

-1 ( in a triangle = 0)

|

+1  
  
Irregular failure

|

-2 ( in a triangle = 0)

|

+2  
  
Non-standard formations  
  
Double three

|

-2

|

+2  
  
Triple three

|

-2

|

+2  
  
Running correction

|

-3

|

+3  
  
Double three running correction

|

-3

|

+3  
  
Triple three running correction

|

-3

|

+3  
  


Power rating can only be properly applied if you fully compact __all
patterns under formation. By compacting a move, you arrive at the
largest, allowable formation possible. For example, let us assume a
double zigzag occurs anywhere from the first to the second to last
formation of a larger pattern (that is a separate pattern), the power
rating should be reliable.

The main rule of power states that the higher is the absolute power
rating is, the less likely is the move to be completely retraced.

  * A zero rating does not imply any specific retracement value, any retracement value is possible from 0% to 100% of the previous pattern.
  * A (+1/-1) rating suggests no more than about 90% retracement by the next completed pattern of the same degree.
  * A (+2/-2) rating indicates no more than about 80% retracement.
  * A (+3/-3) rating suggests that the pattern should be retraced around 60%-70%.

As is any rule, there is an exception to the above table. If a double
zigzag is a separate segment of a terminal impulse or a triangle, the
following segment could completely retrace it and be of the same degree.
It means the beginning of the C-wave with any rating except zero is
reached by the nest wave of the same degree, but has a weaker power
rating (closer to 0), therefore, there is forming a terminal pattern or
a triangle.

![LiteForex: NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance.
Compaction procedures. Power ratings.][29]

The above chart displays a complex correction, whose first segment is a
zigzag. As we know from the above power rating table, its power rating
is zero, and so, any retracement level is possible from 0% to 100% of
the zigzag. It is clear from the chart that this rule is met.

That is all for today. In the next training article, I will cover the
rules to apply progress labels.

Subscribe and be the first to read the most up-to-date materials!

* * *

Take care of yourself and your money!

I wish you good luck and good profits!

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][30]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][31] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![NeoWave. Part 18. Rules of complexity and balance. Compaction
procedures. Power ratings.][32]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-17-extended-rules-of-logic-for-complex-corrections-exceptions-to-the-rules-2020-05-07/
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-1-rules-of-creating-charts/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neo-wave-theory-part-2-basic-information-on-polywaves-and-structure-labels/
   4. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-3-retracement-rule-1/
   5. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-theory-part-4-retracement-rule-2/
   6. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-5-retracement-rule-3/
   7. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-6-retracement-rule-4-conditions-a-and-b/
   8. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-7-retracement-rule-4-conditions-c-d-and-e/
   9. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-8-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b/
   10. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-9-retracement-rule-5-conditions-a-and-b-retracement-rule-6-condition-a/
   11. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-10-retracement-rule-6-conditions-b-c-and-d/
   12. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-11-retracement-rule-7/
   13. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-12-impulsions-and-the-rules-to-analyze-impulse-wave-patterns/
   14. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-13-corrections-rules-to-identify-a-correction/
   15. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-14-corrections-triangles-rules-to-identify-triangles/
   16. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-15-basic-and-advanced-rules-of-logic-to-analyze-triangles/
   17. www.liteforex.com/blog/for-professionals/neowave-part-16-extended-rules-of-logic-for-zigzags-and-flat-corrections/
   18. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.09/BTCUSD_hypov_1.jpg?w=30&s=348113ee32f6d838dc39192cd587e282
   19. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.09/BTCUSD_hypov_2.jpg?w=30&s=c3fe7c93b1c9b066e666615571ecf39b
   20. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.09/BTCUSD_hypov_3.jpg?w=30&s=ddad505febfae36ec8a7f6603d319013
   21. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.09/BTCUSD_hypov_4.jpg?w=30&s=87ccf3bfca352e804f74bf6af41b38a8
   22. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.09/BTCUSD_hypov_5.jpg?w=30&s=068fb3f3afa26fc222c0a432753f670d
   23. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.09/BTCUSD_hypov_6.jpg?w=30&s=9d88f0273b3ba29dc509f1cd37f45b3d
   24. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.09/BTCUSD_hypov_7.jpg?w=30&s=5ac029d84aeec80a33297347350c9032
   25. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.09/BTCUSD_hypov_8.jpg?w=30&s=214d1dd3b309ba213cc0a76b04c74990
   26. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.09/BTCUSD_hypov_9.jpg?w=30&s=f9ff0b8cff53be79cbfcb9325a44a36a
   27. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.09/BTCUSD_hypov_10.jpg?w=30&s=fe42543813fa01f69504583704f681f9
   28. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.09/BTCUSD_hypov_11.jpg?w=30&s=c89bd4ec56afbf2626871f986174a733
   29. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.09/BTCUSD_hypov_13.jpg?w=30&s=198967611bce8a87e21fc702922a0338
   30. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-18-rules-of-complexity-and-balance-compaction-procedures-power-ratings&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   31. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-professionals&slug=neowave-part-18-rules-of-complexity-and-balance-compaction-procedures-power-ratings&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   32. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/cryptocyrrency/hyipov/2020.05.09/BTCUSD_hypov_logo.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=6b994f6c2e990e2810b321c15e728258