+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-13"
description = "Side with market makers!"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Side with market makers!"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 13, 2020

May 13, 2020

Forex: in one boat with market makersDmitri Demidenko

##  **Trading strategy based on [liquidity provider](https://www.fintechee.com/services/liquidity-provider/)s’ preferences**

It’s hard to imagine modern financial markets without market makers -
companies which provide liquidity. If not for them, slow-moving trading
would create a perfect environment for manipulations where prices would
soar and collapse for no reason. Still, even market makers can’t save
Forex from a risk of flash accidents, which the Japanese yen, the Swiss
franc and other currencies have faced in the past 5 years.  But such
events occur rarely, thanks to [liquidity provider](https://www.fintechee.com/services/liquidity-provider/)s.

Market makers’ profit comes from the difference between buying and
selling prices. If there has been a long consolidation amid low trading
volumes, market makers won’t be happy. On the contrary, when quotes
update latest extremums, where stop orders or pending orders have been
certainly placed, [liquidity provider](https://www.fintechee.com/services/liquidity-provider/)s rub their hands.

 **TPSL1 and TPSL2 levels where most likely a big number of orders have
been placed**

![LiteForex: Side with market makers!][1]



How can a regular trader make use of this information? First, pay
attention to long periods of weak market activity. They usually manifest
themselves through forming a narrow trading range and low trading
volumes. Second, check the way trading volumes behave when leaving the
trading range or when they are near TPSL1/TPSL2 extremums. The ideal
version would be a sharp growth of volumes and wide spreads. They will
suggest the most likely direction of prices in the short term.

 **GBP/USD quotes leaving the trading range**

![LiteForex: Side with market makers!][2]

During the whole American and Asian session [GBP/USD][3] traded
inactively. That didn’t satisfy the market maker for sure. Pushing the
market towards selling, the [liquidity provider](https://www.fintechee.com/services/liquidity-provider/) made traders want to
conduct trades. Knowing where the quotes would move to, we could sell
the pound during the growth. In this strategy a protective stop order
should be placed a bit above the lower limit of the previous
consolidation range. In the ideal scenario, the price won’t get back to
that range. It will mean the weakness of bulls.  Bears shouldn’t go too
enthusiastic and set fantastic targets because it’s a short-term
speculation. Sixty or seventy points will be enough.

 **Work strategy based on market maker’s stimulation of trading
activity**

![LiteForex: Side with market makers!][4]

A similar situation may happen to other currencies too, including
[EUR/USD][5] that is traded actively in the Forex market. If it trades
in a narrow range amid low volumes most of the American and Asian
session and then “explodes” suddenly, the breakout bar’s closure will
point to a future direction of quotes. It happened on 5th May when
[EUR/USD][5] grew to the lower limit of the previous consolidation
range, which allowed going short. The same can happen now if bulls fail
to return to the previous trading range that formed because of traders’
low activity.

 **EUR/USD quotes leaving trading ranges**

![LiteForex: Side with market makers!][6]

So, we can form our strategy knowing that market makers are interested
in stimulating traders and remembering that trading volumes behave in a
peculiar way when going outside consolidation ranges. Such a strategy
will be based on understanding market processes, not on blind actions
inspired by “tried-and-true” signals.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][7]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][8] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Forex: in one boat with market makers][9]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/tp-sl-13-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=3ecce6d042a54d30c36aedd94c4f2a59
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/gbpusd1-13-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=5076f8d894a4ebc10dd5cc5036c163c8
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/gbpusd2-13-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=5f8b0bbab609aa9281db723389aef9a8
   5. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/eurusd-13-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=d5b46358a820ac35cc594c547c03faf6
   7. my.liteforex.com/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=forex-in-one-boat-with-market-makers&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=for-[beginners](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/forex-for-beginners/)&slug=forex-in-one-boat-with-market-makers&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/strategies-forex/liteforex-blog-boat-13-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=349c6000f4d70c649c15336df3a7190e