+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-08"
description = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 08.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 08.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=16.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 8, 2020

June 8, 2020

Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 08.06.2020Alex Rodiоnov

###  **USCrude – oil**

Oil is trading in the middle-term uptrend. The target is to test the
resistance Target Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. There are just a few points
left before reaching the zone. After it is achieved, there may start a
correction.

The trend key support is now in the zone of [31.01 — 30.11].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 08.06.2020][1]

The short-term trend is up. The price broke out Gold Zone 4 [37.54 –
37.17] last Friday. The next upside target is Target Zone 5 [41.67 –
40.92].

The price is now starting a correction. The first target of the
correction will be Additional Zone [37.76 – 37.54]. If it is broken out,
the correction may continue down to Intermediary Zone [35.51 – 35.06].
One may enter purchases according to the patterns in both zones.

The short-term trend will turn down and it will be relevant to sell when
the price breaks out level 35.06 and consolidates below.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 08.06.2020][2]

 **[USCrude][3]Trading ideas for today:  **

  1. Buy according to the pattern in Additional Zone [37.76 - 37.54]. TakeProfit: 40.00, Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.
  2. Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [35.51 - 35.06]. TakeProfit: 40.00, Target Zone 5 [41.67 - 40.92]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **XAUUSD – gold**

The gold price was corrected down to the key support of the middle-term
uptrend at [1673.6 – 1664.4]. This week, we shall monitor the buyers’
reaction and look for a buy pattern.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 08.06.2020][4]

The gold local trend is down. The price reached the target in the trend
Target Zone [1673.6 – 1664.4] last Friday. I hope you have taken profits
from this move according to my trading recommendations.

The price is now being corrected up and testing the strong resistance
[1695.8 – 1693.6]. It is relevant to look for sell signals and, if there
are any, sell gold with the target to break through the low made on
Friday.

If Additional Zone [1695.8 – 1693.6] is broken out, there will be a
chance to enter gold purchases. The target will be Intermediary Zone
[1721.0 — 1716.4].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 08.06.2020][5]

 **[XAUUSD][6] Trading ideas for today:  **

Sell according to the pattern in Additional Zone [1695.8 - 1693.6].
TakeProfit: 1671.5. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

###  **EURUSD – euro/dollar**

The EUR/USD medium-term chart displays the middle-term uptrend. Last
week, traders tested Target Zone 3 [1.1291 – 1.1273] and tried to break
it out. The price didn’t consolidate above the resistance and is now
being corrected down. The correction target should be Target Zone
[1.1201 — 1.1183].

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 08.06.2020][7]

In the local short-term trend, the price reached Gold Zone 2 [1.1334 -
1.1325]. After it reached GZ2 and formed a false breakout pattern, the
price has started a correction and reached the trend key support [1.1292
- 1.1283]. Sellers are trying to break this zone out and reverse the
trend,

If the US session closes the price below Intermediary Zone, we shall
tomorrow look for sell entries with a target in the lower Target Zone
[1.1201 — 1.1183].

If there is a buy pattern today, it will be relevant to enter long
trades with the target at the high of last week.

![LiteForex: Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 08.06.2020][8]

 **[EURUSD][9] Trading ideas for today: **

Buy according to the pattern in Intermediary Zone [1.1292 - 1.1283].
TakeProfit: 1.1382. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][10]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][11] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Analysis for oil, gold, and EUR/USD for 08.06.2020][12]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_080620_1.png?w=30&s=b70eed13ebaef584cf60ad100ed6b080
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/WTI_analysis_080620_2.png?w=30&s=5bf7bab5fa749ac997a40201b7e17883
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_080620_1.png?w=30&s=c78a5628b71a0f2419b5f73e71da0962
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_080620_2.png?w=30&s=91356cec947fa0bf41b2ff4cf19166af
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_080620_1.png?w=30&s=d0ea6b9f6387503671ec084751a51640
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_080620_2.png?w=30&s=593c7fc37826148308b90e0539555332
   9. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   10. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-08062020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   11. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=analysis-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-08062020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   12. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_78.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=a6441db6f2d080ac43b8a5f0fbdce85b