+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-08"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 08.06.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 08.06.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=25.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 8, 2020

June 8, 2020

The dollar gave a pleasant surpriseDmitri Demidenko

## The US employment rebounds quickly, which signals the recession has
been the shortest in the US [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/)

A downturn ends when the economy starts expanding. The US employment was
up in May at the highest monthly pace since World War Two (+2.5
million), the US current US recession is going to be the deepest but the
shortest since the 1930s. Despite the gloomy forecasts suggesting the
rise in the unemployment rate to 20%, the indicator has been down from
14.7% to 13.3%, which sent the US stock indexes 3% up and encouraged the
[EUR/USD][1] bulls to take the profits. When everyone is buying, it is a
good chance to sell. The US dollar has strengthened due to this
principle, the optimism about a quicker rebound of the US GDP than the
global indicator, and the growth in the Treasury yields.

 **Dynamics of employment and unemployment in the USA**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 08.06.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The euro’s three-week rally must have resulted from the signs of the
unity in the euro area amid a considerable boost of the fiscal and
monetary stimulus. According to the Bundesbank, which suggested the
growth of Germany’s GDP by 3.2% and 3.8% in 2021-2022 following a drop
by 7.1% in 2020, tax cuts in Germany and other support measures will add
a percentage point to the GDP growth pace next year. Besides, I think it
makes sense to exit the euro longs, as almost a 6% rally of the
[EUR/USD][1] since late May suggests that most of the positive has been
priced in the pair’s quotes. It is now relevant to sell, as many
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s, encouraged by the pleasant surprise made by the US jobs
report, are buying.

Will the euro sell-off continue? The clue should be given by Donald
Trump and the Fed. The US president again threatens the EU to increase
the import tariffs on European cars. The White House, as in the case of
China in 2018-2019, starts with small steps. Trump claims that the
Canadian lobsters are imported duty-free by the EU, while there is an 8%
duty in the block for American live lobsters. If the EU doesn’t drop its
tariff, the US will impose a new tariff on the EU cars. The same is also
acute for China, which imposed a levy on the US live lobsters. The
global economy, as well as China, is already weak amid the pandemic
fallout, and a new round of trade wars will further weaken it. China’s
economy is gradually recovering. In May, China's foreign trade surplus
was up to the record level of $62.9. This should support GDP growth.

 **Dynamics of China’s foreign trade**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 08.06.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Will the Fed weigh on the US dollar? The huge volumes of the Treasury
issuance (it is about $3 trillion in the second quarter, which is equal
to 15% of GDP), an increase in the US employment and inflation rate
encourages [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s to buy risky assets and sell the government bonds.
The growth of the Treasury yields will hinder the economic recovery and
boost the debt servicing costs. Under such conditions, the Fed could
follow the experience of BoJ and the RBA, which means the bond yield
targeting. This will deprive the greenback of its important advantage.
If so, it will be relevant to enter the [EUR/USD][1] longs when the
price rebounds from the supports at 1.124 and 1.12.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![The dollar gave a pleasant surprise][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/labor-markets-usa-08-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=626ffde5cf77ba411296f2c86f2984de
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/china-trade-balance-08-06-20.jpg?w=30&s=75e683975a555c1535048909a65feaa2
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=the-dollar-gave-a-pleasant-surprise&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=the-dollar-gave-a-pleasant-surprise&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-08-06-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=820297a1b9b9df258c47c8b4eecd9c90