+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-06-08"
description = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

June 8, 2020

June 8, 2020

Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysisRoman Onegin

## Forecast for BTCUSD, LTCUSD, ETHUSD, EOSUSD, XRPUSD pairs

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[BTCUSD][1]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][2]**

The BTCUSD market may be forming a large long-term corrective wave 4
that started in early 2018. It could be developing as a double zigzag
[W]-[X]-[Y]. Wave [W] is a bear zigzag, linking wave [X] is yet
developing as a double upward zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y). Waves (W) and (X) have
competed within the [X] waves. There is now forming the initial phase of
wave (Y). Let us see the chart structure in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][3]

The chart displays the structure of the upward impulse wave A that is
composed of the sub-waves [1]-[2]-[3]-[4]-[5], where the corrective wave
[4] has recently completed as a flat (a)-(b)-(c). The price is now
following impulse [5], whose final segment is likely to be now
developing. Therefore, the market should be rising in impulse [5] to a
level of 11000 this week.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[ETHUSD][4]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][5]**

The ETHUSD chart displays the structure of the long-term corrective wave
that is unfolding as a triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z], where the
first three segments have completed. There is now forming the linking
wave [X] as a double zigzag (W)-(X)-(Y). Wave (W) is a zigzag A-B-C,
wave (Y) is also a zigzag where the bullish impulse A is finishing. Let
see the most recent segment of the chart in more detail.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][6]

The impulse wave A is composed of five segments. Its fourth phase,
corrective wave 4, is a horizontal contracting triangle. There is now
forming impulse [5] that is composed of five sub-waves
(1)-(2)-(3)-(4)-(5). Correction (4) is likely to have completed as a
double three. In the near future, the price could be rising in wave (5)
to a level of 263.00.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[LTCUSD][7]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][8]**

The LTCUSD market continues forming the corrective wave B as a triple
zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. The price is now following the final bearish
wave [Z] that is a simple zigzag (A)-(B)-(C). The (A) impulse has
completed, the corrective wave (B) is only half-complete. Let us see the
structure of wave (B) in more detail in the H8 chart.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][9]

The (B) correction may compete as a simple bullish zigzag A-B-C. When
the upward impulse wave A completed, the market started moving sideways
forming the corrective wave B that is likely to be a double three
[W]-[X]-[Y]. There is now developing the linking wave [X] that is
composed of the sub-waves (a)-(b)-(c). The market is likely to be rising
in the final phase of the (c) impulse towards a level of 50.86. Next,
the price should be declining in the [Y] zigzag towards the previous
level 39.50.

* * *

###  **Elliott wave analysis for[EOSUSD][10]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][11]**

Like other major cryptocurrencies, the EOSUSD is developing the global
down triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z]. When wave [Y] finished, the
market has started forming wave [X] that is a bullish zigzag
(A)-(B)-(C). Let us see the structure of this zigzag in more detail in a
shorter timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][11]

The bullish five-wave impulse (A) has completed within the [X] wave.
There is now forming the corrective wave (B) as a double three W-X-Y,
where the zigzag-shaped wave X is finishing now. Presumably, the price
should be rising for some time to a level of 3.11, which is the previous
high made by wave (A). After that, the price should be declining in wave
Y to the previous low, level 2.26.

* * *

###  **Wave analysis for[XRPUSD][12]**

 **![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis
for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][13]**

The XRPUSD market is forming the bear triple zigzag [W]-[X]-[Y]-[X]-[Z],
where the down wave [Y] has recently completed as a double zigzag
(W)-(X)-(Y). The price is now rising in the linking wave [X]. Let us see
its structure on the eight-hour timeframe.

![LiteForex: Weekly cryptocurrency forecast. Elliott wave analysis for
Bitcoin, Ethereum, Litecoin, EOS and Ripple][14]

The linking wave [X] is likely to be forming as a simple zigzag
(A)-(B)-(C). The (A) impulse has completed. There is now developing the
corrective wave (B) that is composed of the sub-waves W-X-Y, where the X
wave is likely to be a triple zigzag. Presumably, the X wave should soon
finish at a level of around 0.215. After that, the price should be
declining in the Y wave to s level of the previous low made by wave W,
as it is outlined in the chart.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][15]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][16] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of BTCUSD in real time mode

![Weekly Elliott wave cryptocurrency forecast and analysis][17]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=BTCUSD
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/08-06-2020X/BTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=f48c5d94255ef8ef47067bf15c7cd10a
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/08-06-2020X/BTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=cbebcf0aea8bf7a911836ad1abcae3af
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=ETHUSD
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/08-06-2020X/ETHUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=06be99100ef533e016882a74b8e1fcb3
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/08-06-2020X/ETHUSDH8.png?w=30&s=5a54cab0056023d0c656e882c1654316
   7. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=LTCUSD
   8. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/08-06-2020X/LTCUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=08729411392f4cd88000ca790f33ef99
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/08-06-2020X/LTCUSDH8.png?w=30&s=efe8407d9588475c812036312ba3e83a
   10. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EOSUSD
   11. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/08-06-2020X/EOSUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=8a7327ba900590cf10aaad0495d08191
   12. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XRPUSD
   13. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/08-06-2020X/XRPUSDDaily.png?w=30&s=bfaf8225a24f6a17810c909fb99acd03
   14. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/08-06-2020X/XRPUSDH8.png?w=30&s=f559c70d3bfbda2172e391c503e5cbe0
   15. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-06-08&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   16. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-elliott-wave-cryptocurrency-forecast-and-analysis-2020-06-08&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   17. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/wave-analysis-crypto/1-elliott-waves-weekly-forecast-for-[BTC](https://www.playgroundfx.com/blog/who-is-the-creator-of-bitcoin/)usd-ethusd-ltcusd-eosusd-xrpusd_1000x545.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1480cfce2406c81b57be8a77076342f1