+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-21"
description = "Forecast for euro price for 21 October 2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Forecast for euro price for 21 October 2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=6.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-21

2020-10-21

Euro follows rouble's example. Forecast for EURUSD for 21.10.2020Dmitri
Demidenko

The European Commission’s first issuance of bonds as part of common debt
and the capital flow to the European markets support [EURUSD][1] bulls.
Let’s discuss that and make a trading plan.

## Fundamental forecast for euro for today

Money controls the world. Everything seems to be against the euro: the
second wave of COVID-19 in Europe, the [S&P 500][2]’s retracement, the
worsening of the eurozone’s economy and the ECB’s hints at monetary
[policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) softening. Nevertheless, the [EURUSD][1] jumps up like a scalded
cat. If the reason is the Chinese yuan that has reached its 27-month
high against the USD, then why aren’t the Australian and the NZ dollars
consolidating? Australia’s and New Zealand’s shares in Chinese exports
are higher than the eurozone’s one. As it turns out, it’s carry trade
that should be blamed for the euro’s rise.

The story that occurred to the Russian rouble is still fresh in our
minds: carry trade made it the best Forex performer in 2019.
[USDRUB][3]’s fall looked paradoxical too. The state of the Russian
economy left much to be desired, trade wars slowed down the main
partners’ GDP and the Bank of Russia dropped the key rate to stimulate
inflation. It’s the latter factor that made non-residents buy out
governmental bonds in expectation of a rise in price. A similar story
appears to be happening in Europe now.

The European Commission made the first issuance of 10-year and 20-year
bonds as part of common debt on 20 October. The sale will finance the
EU’s coronavirus-relief programs. The issuance volume amounted to €17
billion, and that’s just a beginning. The fund’s total volume is €750
billion. The mass media once presented those bonds as an alternative to
treasuries. That was one of the factors in the [EURUSD][1]’s summer
rally. I think it’s a mere flow of capital from the USA and developing
countries to Europe. Buying EM bonds doesn’t seem to be a good idea amid
global GDP’s potential slowdown in Q4. Europe’s periphery is another
thing. Greek, Italian and Portuguese bonds look tasty. That lowers their
spreads, in comparison with German ones, and points to smaller political
risks. Hi, Russia-2019!

### Yield spreads in European and German bonds



 _Source: Wall Street Journal._

The more the ECB speaks about softening monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/), the more
actively non-residents buy out European bonds, hoping for a price rise
in the future. Obviously, German bonds have no room for growth, but the
periphery still offers some earning opportunities. By the way,
[EURUSD][1]’s 3-month swap spreads became negative in August. That means
the Americans can make profit from both a rise in price in EU bonds and
hedging.

The risk of a Blue Wave in the USA aggravates the situation. Joe Biden’s
victory and the Democrats’ takeover of the Congress will unblock $4-5
trillion in fiscal aid. That will increase the volumes of Treasuries
issuance and drop their price. Investors need an alternative urgently,
and they find it in Europe.

### Trading plan for [EURUSD][1] for today

How long will the euro continue growing, considering the growth isn’t
fundamentally backed up? The rouble’s last year example says that
everything is possible. The [EURUSD][1]’s quotes can be rising up to the
ECB’s meeting on 29 October. Then a sale-out may follow. I recommend
staying outside the market for a while.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=USDRUB&returnUrl=true
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-follow-roubles-example-forecast-for-eurusd-for-21102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=euro-follow-roubles-example-forecast-for-eurusd-for-21102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus