+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-10-21"
description = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (21 October 2020)"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Technical analysis for US Crude, XAUUSD, and EURUSD today (21 October 2020)"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=8.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2020-10-21

2020-10-21

Short-term forecast for oil, gold, and EURUSD for 21.10.2020Alex
Rodionov

I welcome my fellow traders! I have made a price forecast for US Crude,
XAUUSD, and EURUSD using a combination of margin zones methodology and
technical analysis. Based on the market analysis, I suggest entry
signals for day traders.

Yesterday the EURUSD buyers updated a significant local maximum and
broke through the Intermediary Zone [1.1816 - 1.1804].

The article covers the following subjects:

## Oil price forecast for today: USCrude analysis

Oil is trying to go up and break through the resistance - Target Zone 5
[41.67 - 40.92]. If it consolidates above the level, consider new longs
with the target in Target Zone 6 [49.17 - 48.42].

The short-term trend is upward. The local maximum within this trend was
updated yesterday. The main target is Target Zone [42.56 - 42.01].

The zones of strong supports need to be rebuilt because the local
maximum has been updated. Additional Zone is now at the levels [40.36 -
40.23] and Intermediary Zone is at the levels [39.08 - 38.83].

To open longs on oil at favourable prices, you need to wait for a
correction to the support levels indicated above, see the reaction of
buyers to the test of the levels and find a reversal pattern.

### [USCrude ][1]trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern from Additional Zone [40.36 - 40.23]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [42.56 - 42.01]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern from Intermediary Zone [39.08 - 38.83]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [42.56 - 42.01]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

## Gold price forecast for today: XAUUSD analysis

Gold is correcting to the mid-term downtrend and approaching the key
resistance [1951.0 - 1941.7]. Wait for a test of the zone and look for a
pattern to short. Let's consider the lower Target Zone 2 [1829.4 -
1820.1] as a target.

On the chart of a smaller timeframe, we can see a short-term uptrend,
the target of which is Target Zone [1951.0 - 1941.7].

Consider the breakout of the intraday resistance - Additional Zone
[1911.3 - 1908.7]. The zone was broken through and the price
consolidated higher. Yesterday I recommended considering longs on a
level retest. Follow these recommendations today.

I do not see any opportunity for shorts at the moment.

### [XAUUSD][2] trading ideas for today:

Buy at a retest of Additional Zone [1911.3 - 1908.7]. TakeProfit: Target
Zone [1951.0 - 1941.7]. StopLoss: 1903.0.

* * *

## Euro/Dollar forecast for today: EURUSD analysis

Yesterday, the euro updated the local maximum on the chart of a bigger
timeframe. Target Zone [1.1832 - 1.1812] has also been retested. The
medium-term trend remains a downward one. To change it to an upward one,
two closes of American trading sessions above the level of 1.1832 are
required.

Buyers updated a significant local maximum and broke through
Intermediary Zone [1.1816 - 1.1804] yesterday. The short-term trend
changed to an upward one, and at the bottom of the chart, we saw that
the priority model failed: the price did not reach the Target Zone
[1.1631 - 1.1611].

From today we switch to looking for entries into longs on euro with the
target in the upper Target Zone [1.1943 - 1.1920]. I suggest looking for
entries into longs on correction at favourable prices from Additional
Zone [1.1804 - 1.1798] or from Intermediary Zone [1.1746 - 1.1735].

### [EURUSD][3] trading ideas for today:

  1. Buy according to the pattern from Additional Zone [1.1804 - 1.1798]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1943 - 1.1920]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

  2. Buy according to the pattern from Intermediary Zone [1.1746 - 1.1735]. TakeProfit: Target Zone [1.1943 - 1.1920]. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram chat for traders: <t.me/liteforexengchat>. We are sharing the signals and trading experience
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-21102020&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=short-term-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-for-21102020&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus