+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-05-21"
description = "Damage from QE programs will soon exceed their advantages"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Damage from QE programs will soon exceed their advantages"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=7.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-05-21

2021-05-21

Central banks apply for a divorce. Review as of 21.05.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

Damage from QE programs will soon exceed their advantages

## Marriage with QE didn't last long

A husband is temporary, but an ex-husband is once and for all. Even if
the Fed decides to divorce with QE, it won't disappear from the treasury
market's life. Wells Fargo Securities believes that the central bank
will hold its share in treasuries at 20%-25% in the next four years.
Also, the treasury issuance will fall from $2.75 trillion to $1.99
trillion next year. Those two factors will prevent bond yields from
growing and the USD from consolidating.

A woman always brings happiness. First, you're happy to be with her, and
then you're glad to get rid of her. When the Fed launched its QE program
in spring 2020, financial markets were happy. Since then, many other
central banks and governments followed its example, spoiling their
economies with enormous fiscal stimuli. Consultancy CrossBorder Capital
estimates financial markets were flooded with cheap liquidity worth $27
trillion, an equivalent of one-third of the global GDP. Global stock
indexes have grown 85% since then.

Love is blindness, but marriage is a brilliant optician. The global
economy is recovering from recession on the monetary expansion, but the
damage of relief programs is exceeding benefits. Just look at the
uncontrolled inflation boost in the US, which makes me doubt Joe Biden's
new fiscal stimulus projects worth $4 trillion will pass through
Congress.

The central banks' divorce with QE is an objective reality. That's not
that one situation when a woman thinks, "if everyone likes him, he must
be mine." If parting is delayed, there will blow bubbles in stock and
real estate markets, inflation will soar uncontrollably, and currencies
will get weak. The Fed, the ECB, the Bank of England, and the Bank of
Japan may cut asset purchases from 9$ trillion this year to $3.4
trillion next year, BofA Merrill Lynch estimates. Many regulators are
slow in breaking up, following the Fed that says high inflation is a
temporary occurrence. However, some of them chose their separate route.

If there's no one behind and in front, you must have chosen your
separate way or got lost. Canada is phasing out its QE program; Norway
and Eastern Europe think about a rate rise, while Russia is raising
rates. Time will show whether or not they got lost. As for now, their
currencies are getting stronger against the USD that lost support from
bond yields.

What will happen to the USD next? I think the USD index will continue
falling as the Fed keeps its dominance in the bond market, putting the
kibosh on bond rates, treasury issuance reduces, and the global economy
recovers. The USD grew on fast vaccination and rapid GDP growth in
March, but now the US is losing those exclusive advantages. The
greenback no longer looks like a man of one’s dreams that every woman
aims to meet. Getting rid of the rascal is a more important goal at the
moment.







## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )