+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-07"
description = "ECB observes EUR/USD's rally"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "ECB observes EUR/USD's rally"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=9.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 7, 2020

August 7, 2020

Euro makes ECB nervousDmitri Demidenko

## How long will Lagarde&co keep silent about euro’s consolidation?

Jerome Powell can relax and ask his FOMC colleagues why they are looking
at him as though their people left for a week, and the home bar is
breaking with drinks, but Christine Lagarde’s feelings are different.
The euro’s rally prevents the eurozone’s economy from recovering and
consumer prices from growing. A few Executive Board members have already
said the monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) will remain ultra-soft until inflation starts
reaching the target level. I can suppose it will take a long time: the
2% level was last reached several years ago. However, [EUR/USD][1] bulls
don’t feel bothered.

![LiteForex: ECB observes EUR/USD's rally][2]

If a woman is angry, she knows she’s not right. Have you ever seen
Christine Lagarde getting angry? Can she be always right?! Europe may be
lacking money. People say happiness isn’t about money, it’s about love.
A pure human love for money. The Fed’s programs look more extensive than
the ECB’s, and its balance is likely to grow faster. It’s another
argument for the euro’s consolidation.

A more pleasant fact is that the States has started to take the eurozone
as an example. The US press has been praising European employment
support measures, calling them more efficient, and blaming the Democrats
and the Republicans for not being able to reach an understanding during
these hard times. It’s used to be otherwise. Europe would hang on the
Fed’s every word. Now the Fed head is an ordinary person who does what
everyone else does and is even made a fool of at times.

> Are you Powell? I’ve been your fan for a long time! Could you please
sign for me here?

>

> My pleasure! Here you are.

>

> Hurray! Powell is my loan guarantor now!

![LiteForex: ECB observes EUR/USD's rally][3]

Low rates and QE would put pressure on the euro and support European
exports. Still, the pandemic made other central banks soften monetary
policies aggressively, and [EUR/USD][1] managed to soar to 2-year highs.
I wonder why Donald Trump is keeping his mouth shut. Last year already,
he accused the ECB of deliberately weakening the local currency and thus
giving a competitive advantage to European exporters. Why isn’t the US
president saying the same about the Fed now? Why does he see the speck
in his brother’s eye, but doesn’t consider the beam in his own eye? Or
is Trump just tired?

> \- How can you understand intellectual work isn’t meant for you?

>

> \- You get tired when thinking

![LiteForex: ECB observes EUR/USD's rally][4]

The most interesting thing is the Tweeter talker may be replaced by Joe
Biden, who isn’t less talkative. He’s already accusing the current
president of having messed up the Chinese campaign. The Republicans
strike back saying it’s Biden fault: the former Vice President himself
would conduct a [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) of appeasement concerning China.

You need to be tough on your enemies. My psychotherapist advises me to
write letters to the people I hate and then burn them. I did, but I have
no idea whom to send those letters now.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>







## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Euro makes ECB nervous][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/vine-07-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=adbc22fc66068aee25111bf4e6b195e9
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/debt-07-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=5f945a83216a6081067f3fe745d97100
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/trump-07-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=839d0c09a89187ef9cee1f7cfbb18032
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=chatty-forex&slug=euro-makes-ecb-nervous&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=chatty-forex&slug=euro-makes-ecb-nervous&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/chatty-forex/liteforex-blog-euro-07-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=47e94df9440960866b0b26985add507e