+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-07"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 07.08.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 07.08.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=23.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 7, 2020

August 7, 2020

EUR/USD forecast: Dollar dreams about the pastDmitri Demidenko

## Fundamental U.S. dollar forecast for today

### EUR/USD bears hope to win back amid the escalation of trade wars

Forex investment ideas are often based on old patterns. History repeats
itself, and the market can move in the same way as it did. The U.S. re-
introduced import tariffs on Canadian aluminum, which resembles the
events of 2018 when the US did the same and unleashed the trade war with
China. Under the guise of national security interests, Donald Trump was
not legible when choosing the means. Any means are good to win. However,
the U.S. economy is much weaker than it was 2.5 years ago.

The U.S. president says the Canadian aluminum is flooding the U.S. which
weighs on the U.S. industry. As a result, there is a danger to U.S.
national security, which could justify any Trump’s actions. I won’t be
surprised if the things will go on according to the scenario of 2018. At
that time, Trump was imposing levies for many countries, is discontented
with the U.S. trade deficit. In July, the Chinese exports to the U.S.
increased by 12.5%, and the trade surplus grew from $29.41 billion to
$32.48 billion. It seems that the U.S. is flooded not only with the
Canadian aluminum but with the Chinese goods as well. Is it time to re-
start the trade war?

### Dynamics of Chinese foreign trade

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 07.08.2020][1]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The US-China relations have been tense for a long time. The mutual
closure of consulates by Washington and Beijing, Trump's announcement of
a 45-day deadline for American corporations to end business with the
company that owns TikTok, the White House's plans to delist Chinese
companies from the U.S. stock exchanges unless they comply with U.S.
audit requirements. All of this creates strong headwinds for the global
economy. The trade war could be escalated after a half-year review of
the parties' fulfillment of their obligations under the Phase-1 trade
deal signed in January. However, this is going to be another story,
different from the old pattern.

In 2018-2019, trade battles strengthened the U.S. dollar amid the
divergence in the trends of the [S&P500][2] and Shanghai Composite.
Investors believed that the US would win the trade war and bought the
dollar. However, the U.S. economy was much stronger at that time. Just
six months ago, if someone told that the increase in the U.S. jobless
claims by 1.2 million in the week through August 1 was good [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/), and
the [EUR/USD][3] bears could draw the pair below the middle of figure
18, it would sound nonsense.

### Dynamics of U.S. jobless claims

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 07.08.2020][4]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

Such a report keeps a chance of a positive report on U.S. employment in
July. According to the forecasts of Reuters experts, the US nonfarm
payrolls should grow by 1.58 million, which is much lower than 4.8
million new jobs in June. However, the greenback will try to use any
positive [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) bit. Even in this case, the [EUR/USD][3] bears can still
start a consolidation in the range of 1.169-1.179. Otherwise, if the
U.S. jobs report is weaker than expected, the euro bulls can hope for a
rally up to at least $1.192.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![EUR/USD forecast: Dollar dreams about the past][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/trade-balance-china-07-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=ae0afd0272c1884e891810beeb8bedaa
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true
   3. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/jobless-claims-07-08-20.jpg?w=30&s=83f2f51e56e3ae53683135d5d287a0aa
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-dollar-dreams-about-the-past&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=eurusd-forecast-dollar-dreams-about-the-past&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-07-08-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=1e52fac9021415e3e417e8cd53080393