+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-08-07"
description = "Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=13.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

August 7, 2020

August 7, 2020

Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USDAlex Rodionov

##  **O** **il price forecast for next wee** **k: USCrude analysis**

Oil price hasn’t yet broken out the strong middle-term resistance Target
Zone 5 [41.67 – 40.92]. AS buyers can’t break out this zone, there
should start a correction down. The target of any correction is to buy
the liquidity at cheap prices before the trend continues.

For next week, I recommend the oil price correction down to the trend’s
key support [37.23 – 36.61]. After the zone is tested, we shall enter
new purchases according to the pattern with the target at the high of
August.

An alternative scenario suggests TZ5 breakout with consolidation. In
this case, on the retest of the broken-out zone, we shall look for a buy
entry with a target in TZ 6 [49.17 — 48.42].

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][1]

###  **[USCrude][2]Trading tips for the upcoming week:**

Buy according to the pattern in Target Zone [37.23 - 36.61]. TakeProfit:
43.50. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **Gold** **price forecast for next wee** **k:** **XAUUSD**
**analysis** ****

Gold hits fresh highs. The middle-term trend is up. Buyers are trying to
consolidate the price above the resistance Target Zone 10 [2057.2 –
2051.2].

If they do, the next buy target will Target Zone 11 [2117.2 - 2111.2].
Otherwise, the gold price should be corrected down to the trend key
support [1993.0 - 1984.8].

We shall look for new gold buy trades in the trend according to the
patterns. For next week, I recommend expecting the test of Target Zone
[1993.0 - 1984.8] and looking for a buy pattern. The target will be to
break through the local high.

If the local high is updated before the TZ test, the zone should be
rearranged.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][3]

###  **[XAUUSD][4] Trading tips for the upcoming week:**

Buy according to the pattern in Target Zone [1993.0 - 1984.8].
TakeProfit: 2074.0. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

* * *

##  **E** **uro/dollar price forecast for next wee** **k:** **EURUSD**
**analysis** ****

The EUR/USD is trading in the middle-term uptrend. The price is being
corrected now. Traders are trying to break out Target Zone 4 [1.1914 –
1.1896].

If bulls break out TZ4, the next target in the uptrend will be Target
Zone 5 [1.2096 — 1.2078].

For next week, I recommend expect the correction to the trend key
support zone [1.1733 - 1.1715] and look for a new buy pattern there.

An alternative scenario suggests the price should break out TZ4,
consolidate above. In this case, we shall open buy positions on the zone
retest. The take profit will be at TZ5, the stop loss will be below the
next local low.

There no buy signals as of now.

![LiteForex: Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][5]

###  **[EURUSD][6]  Trading tips for the upcoming week:**

Buy according to the pattern in Target Zone [1.1733 - 1.1715].
TakeProfit: 1.1915. StopLoss: according to the pattern rules.

> IZ - Intermediary Zone: responsible for the price momentum reversing

>

> TZ - Target Zone: a zone that is 75% likely to be reached after IZ
breakout.

>

> GZ - Gold Zone: zone in the medium-term momentum.

>

> All zones are calculated based on the average [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) price of the
instrument and margin requirements of the futures.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][7]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][8] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>

## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

![Weekly forecast for oil, gold and EUR/USD][9]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/USCrude_analysis_070820.png?w=30&s=8fa4ed460684c8d128bd0733cf93c9ef
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading?type=oil
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/XAUUSD_analysis_070820.png?w=30&s=36a750b554453755aa080bb3e4323376
   4. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   5. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/analytics/EURUSD_analysis_070820.png?w=30&s=986bb57aaf9648301cb9b6274cba838d
   6. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   7. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-2020-08-07&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   8. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=weekly-forecast-for-oil-gold-and-eurusd-2020-08-07&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   9. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/commodities/gold_145.jpeg?q=75&w=1000&s=db7872e7001b13393abb560d31d9ad26