+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-04-06"
description = "US dollar price forecast 6 April 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 6 April 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-04-06

2021-04-06

Dollar got into a time trap. Forecast as of 06.04.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The market often mocks at [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s. When the majority is confident in
the continuation of a currency growth, its exchange rate is falling, and
vice versa. The crucial thing under such conditions is not to miss the
start of a new trend. Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make up a
[EURUSD][1] trading plan.

## Monthly US dollar fundamental forecast

I have many times written that the US dollar won’t rise on the US strong
domestic data in April like it did on weak reports in March. In March,
the major growth driver for the greenback was the Treasury yields rally.
However, the US debt market was overvalued at that time. It is high time
the situation stabilized, which the [EURUSD][1] bulls have taken
advantage of.

It would seem that an impressive employment increase by 916,000 in March
and the strongest growth in the ISM services PMI since the record began
in 1997 should have discouraged the US dollar bears. However, as I
expected, the market has revealed its true nature – the Treasury yield
hasn’t increased, while the [S&P 500][2], on the contrary, has hit a new
all-time high. An increase in the global risk appetite usually puts
pressure on safe-haven assets, such as the greenback. Therefore, the
[EURUSD][1] bulls managed to test level 1.18.

### Dynamics of US services PMI



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Some analysts suggest that the purchasing managers’ indexes and
employment data are not strong enough to force the Fed to consider any
moves towards monetary normalization. Furthermore, Federal Reserve Bank
of Cleveland President Loretta Mester said the better-than-expected
March payroll report was “great” but not great enough, so the Fed is
willing to be patient. But how could it be better!

In my opinion, the Treasury yields are not growing because [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s
doubt the adoption of Joe Biden’s $3-$4 trillion fiscal stimulus by
Congress. The aid project should be paid for by the tax rise, which the
big business behind the legislators is not willing to accept.
Eventually, the Treasuries issue may not be as sizable as it was
expected, and the US economy may not be growing that fast.

It is incorrect to compare March hand April, also because of the
epidemiological situation in Europe. Therefore, those who try to act
according to the former principles could fall into a trap. For example,
Goldman Sachs recommends closing USD shorts versus commodity currencies,
as firm U.S. growth and rising bond yields may keep the greenback
supported over the short term. The majority of Forex traders share this
opinion.

### Dynamics of USD speculative positions versus major currencies

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

I believe Goldman Sachs and others, sharing the same opinion, could fall
into a time trap, missing the start of the [EURUSD][1] uptrend. However,
Goldman is still quite bearish on the dollar medium- and long-term
outlook. The bank suggests the euro should be at $1.21 and $1.28 in 3
and 12 months, respectively.

### Monthly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

As I noted earlier, it is too early to be optimistic about the euro and
too late to be pessimistic. The [EURUSD][1] is likely to be
consolidating in the range of 1.17-1.195, and it will be relevant to
sell on the price rise and buy on the price fall.





## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true