+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-01-29"
description = "Euro price forecast 29 January 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Euro price forecast 29 January 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=17.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-01-29

2021-01-29

Euro declares war. Forecast as of 29.01.2021Dmitri Demidenko

The verbal interventions of the European Central Bank could enrage
Washington. And the ECB needn’t have interfered with the currency rates
under the current conditions. The divergences in the economic expansion
and vaccination rates press down the [EURUSD][1]. Let us discuss the
Forex outlook and make up a trading plan.

## Weekly euro fundamental forecast

If the ECB is willing to discourage [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s by suggesting a potential
interest rate cut, it should not mention the rise of Germany’s consumer
prices. In January, the German inflation has surged from 0.7% to +1.6%
and is likely to push the euro-area inflation up. This fact could mean
that the European Central Bank will end the pandemic emergency purchase
program earlier than expected, which could have supported the
[EURUSD][1] bulls. However, the euro bulls haven’t enjoyed the success
for a long time.

Following the president of the central bank of the Netherlands, Klaas
Knot, the Governor of the Bank of Finland, Olli Rehn says the ECB will
spare no effort to stimulate the inflation growth and is monitoring the
euro exchange rate. According to Commerzbank, the choice of the European
regulator's information campaign means that it has declared a currency
war. The Governing Council’s officials' emphasis on cutting the interest
rates and ordering research, whether the weakening of the US dollar is
connected with a large-scale fiscal stimulus, suggests that the ECB is
worried about the current euro exchange rate rather than the speed of
its strengthening.

### Dynamics of EURUSD and trade-weighted euro

If the Commerzbank is correct, the ECB's verbal interventions should
disappoint Janet Yellen, who promised to stop other countries' attempts
to artificially depreciate their currencies. Besides, the inflation
rebound could mess the ECB plans. The rise of Germany’s consumer prices
could have resulted from temporary factors. However, according to the
ING, ECB obviously underestimates the potential inflation growth
following a period of persistently low inflation. The CPI increase will
worsen the dispute among the Governing Council’s members, encouraging
the ECB to start monetary normalization. If so, the [EURUSD][1] trend
should turn up. However, the euro bulls are now concerned about
defending their positions and preventing the euro from a deeper fall.

Slow vaccination progress in Europe and the fact that the USA, unlike
the euro area, won’t slide into a double-dip recession press the euro
exchange rate down. In fact, the ECB is going too far: verbal
interventions are not needed in the current situation, they risk
provoking the White House's anger.

In 2020, the US economy contracted 3.5%, the worst since the end of
World War II and the first recession since 2009. However, thanks to
fiscal stimulus of $900 billion from Donald Trump and $1,900 billion
from Joe Biden, the US GDP, following a weak start in 2021, should
rapidly rebound in the next quarters. The IMF notes that the US economy
has enormous growth potential, and the World Bank calls for winning the
war on COVID-19 first and paying off debts later.

In contrast to the Americans, generously spending money, the € 750
billion European Recovery Fund, according to the ECB, will lead to a
more than modest 1.5% expansion of the euro-area GDP.

### Influence of European Recovery fund on euro-area GDPs

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

Therefore, the economic growth gap and different paces of vaccinations
in Europe and the USA will continue pressing down the [EURUSD][1] in the
short run. If the price breaks out the support at 1.208, it could slide
down towards 1.204, 1.199, and 1.195.



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true