+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-09-20"
description = "Gold price forecast 20 September 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Gold price forecast 20 September 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=15.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-09-20

2021-09-20

Gold: the truth will out. Forecast as of 20.09.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Gold traders could fall into the same trap as in 2013. At that time,
gold entered a bear market amid tapering the QE and could not rise until
2019. Will [history](https://www.fixpro.org/post/chargeless-historical-data-api-backtesting/) repeat itself? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and
make up a gold trading plan.

## Quarterly fundamental gold forecast

What should the [XAUUSD][1] bulls do when the Fed is about to signal the
withdrawal of monetary stimulus? Run! They were taught this very well by
the ex-president of the ECB, Ben Bernanke, who, with his message about
the end of the QE, launched not only a taper tantrum but also the gold
downtrend. History repeats itself. Therefore, my trading idea to sell
gold expressed [a week][2] and [two weeks ][3]ago yielded profits. I bet
on the same panic among the [XAUUSD][1] buyers as it was in 2013.

Of course, there is a lot of difference between current events and what
happened 8 years ago. Then, the yield on Treasury bonds was actively
growing, and inflation did not manage to reach excessively high levels,
as was expected amid huge monetary stimulus. The US economic recovery
was much slower, and there was a lot of time left before fulfilling the
Fed’s dual mandate. However, the Treasury yields could still start
rising. The long-term nature of high inflation is an additional reason
to sell gold. 52 Bloomberg experts predict that US PCE will be at 3.9%
by the end of 2021 and will slow down to 2.2% in 2022 and 2023. That is,
it will continue to be above the target, which should encourage the Fed
to start tapering the QE.

### Expert forecasts for US key economic indicators



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Although the analysts expect the start of the QE tapering process in
December and predict the first federal funds rate hike only in 2023,
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s have a different view on the monetary normalization. The CME
derivatives suggest a 53% chance of the rate hike in December 2022. The
dot plot inches towards earlier hikes in the FOMC forecasts, it will be
a reason to buy the US dollar and sell the precious metal. In June, only
7 out of 18 Fed officials expected the first rate hike in 2022; however,
there may be significantly more in September.

### Expert forecasts for Fed’s interest rate



 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

Everything goes to the fact that gold can repeat its trend that occurred
in 2011-2015 when the gold price collapsed from its old record high of
$1921 per ounce by more than 45%. Concerning the current record highs,
it could potentially drop to $1150. I do not think that this is a
realistic forecast, but the potential of the downward movement is great.
Speculators are now much more neutral to gold than, for example, in
2017.

### Dynamics of gold speculative positions

 _Source_ _: Bloomberg_

### Quarterly gold trading plan

I believe the shorts entered at [$1806][3] and [$1782][2] are quite
promising. Even if traders sell off the US dollar amid Jerome Powell's
hawkish tone at the press conference following the September FOMC
meeting, the truth will out. Sooner or later, QE will finish, and the
federal funds rate will be raised. The gold trend is clear, so hold down
short trades and add up to the sell positions on the corrections up. The
medium-term targets are $1715 and $1665.



## Price chart of XAUUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=XAUUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/gold-will-fall-forecast-as-of-13092021/
   3. www.liteforex.com/blog/analysts-opinions/gold-situation-is-unclear-forecast-as-of-06092021/