+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-13"
description = "Excessive optimism can do harm"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "Excessive optimism can do harm"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=19.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-08-13

2021-08-13

Markets in 2021: when will the comedy be over? Review as of
13.08.2021Dmitri Demidenko

Excessive optimism can do harm

## Everyone's a liar

A sheep was afraid of wolves its whole life, but it was the shepherd
that killed it. They scared bulls in US stocks with lots of things:
Delta, the US economy passing its growth peak, the debt ceiling, and the
drastic rally of yields on treasuries. Still, it's the Fed that will be
most likely blamed for the [S&P 500][1]'s correction. The Fed that hand-
fed the stock index with cheap liquidity. The shepherd that always
suggested the monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) would come back to normal slowly. The
suggestion that a market that strong can swallow easily!

Which is easier: to be boring but wise, or funny but marasmic? Ex-Fed
Chair Janet Yellen’s addresses often made one yawn as she would
constantly chew over and spell out information. Jerome Powell can hardly
be called "marasmic," but he can "lull" markets as well as the current
minister of finance. Investors believed that high inflation was
temporary and the federal funds rate would be raised in 2023 more than
FOMC members. All was the other way round when the Fed raised the rate
in 2015-2018: the forward market ran ahead of the central bank. However,
looking back in the past may not be worthwhile.

The ultimate and the penultimate recessions are different in many
aspects, indeed. However, the Fed is experienced enough to feel at home.
It can talk nonsense about the slow pace of monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/)
normalization and actively withdraw liquidity from the market using
reverse repo operations. Isn't that nonsense?

And who said there's little nonsense in the markets? Congress must vote
every two years to approve borrowing and thus finance the costs already
accepted by the lawmakers. And the ceiling isn't actually a ceiling as
Uncle Sam can continue borrowing even upon reaching it. Comedy, right?

Or, for example, look at the Bank of England that had praised QE to the
skies up to August's meeting. They said it was too early to shrink the
bond-buying program as that would hamper economic recovery. Then, the
Monetary Policy Committee cut the bank rate from 1.5% to 0.5% and
upgraded the inflation forecast to 4%, thus increasing the chance of
monetary restriction in as early as 2022.

They feed markets with information totally opposite to what they
actually do, and then they're surprised to have an inadequate reaction.
The Fed, Congress, and White House turned the crowd into optimists, but
optimists hope to fail to hit the ground when they fall. Everyone is
sure that the [S&P 500][1]'s pullback is a reason for buying cheaper
stocks. What if they are wrong? What if the good things aren't about to
happen because they have already happened? What will be the result of
all that nonsense?



## Price chart of SPX in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true