+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2021-08-12"
description = "US dollar price forecast 12 August 2021"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "US dollar price forecast 12 August 2021"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=28.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

2021-08-12

2021-08-12

Dollar: the temperature is rising. Forecast as of 12.08.2021Dmitri
Demidenko

The Fed could provoke the S&P 500 correction in an attempt to stem
rising inflation by reducing the growth rate of the money supply. How
will this affect [EURUSD][1]? Let us discuss the Forex outlook and make
up a trading plan.

## Fundamental US dollar forecast for a week

When everyone is making purchases, there is a great opportunity to sell.
It is not in vain that major traders use [news](https://www.letsplayfx.com/blog/forex-news-website/) to form positions. The
crowd, frightened by the disappointing statistics, will give them their
money. It doesn't matter what little thing caused the fear. Let it be an
increase in core inflation of +0.3% against the forecast of +0.4% MoM.
One tenth of a percent pushed the [EURUSD][1] price from the bottom to
the middle of the 17th figure, allowing USD buyers to purchase it at an
attractive price.

The slowdown in consumer prices from 0.9% to 0.5% MoM and the core CPI
from 0.9% to 0.3% in July prompted the markets to believe that the
series of excessive inflationary surprises was over. However, is the
period of increased inflationary pressures over? The decline in the
growth rate of the base CPI from 4.5% to 4.3% YoY is the same as a drop
in body temperature from 39 to 38.5 degrees. It seems less, but still
hot.

### Inflation dynamics in the USA

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Yes, price pressure in leading sectors, including used car sales, is on
the decline. But new ones are ready to replace the old growth drivers.
For example, rent, the share of which in PCE is about 30%, or the
average hourly wage, which increased by 5% in May-June. And if you
remember the large amount of money that consumers got from the fiscal
stimulus, it becomes clear that high inflation is serious and long-
lasting.

Of course, the Fed is doing everything possible to prevent its
acceleration. The central bank has a lot of experience in fighting the
last recession, when it managed to stop the rise in consumer prices with
the help of loans in the form of reverse interest rates. The volume of
such transactions is now rapidly increasing, which leads to a slowdown
in the growth of the money supply. However, in the economy, everything
is interconnected. An attempt to slow down inflation can have dire
consequences for the stock market. For the first time since 2018, the US
GDP rate is faster than the M2 money supply. The ratio is known as the
Marshallian K. Its movement to the red zone in 2010 led to the S&P 500's
16% correction, and nearly broke a bullish stock market in 2018.

### Dynamics of the [S&P 500][2] and the Marshallian K

 _Source: Bloomberg._

Lack of liquidity is indeed capable of provoking a correction in stock
indices, which will boost demand for such a safe-haven asset like the US
dollar.

Meanwhile, despite the slowdown in core inflation, FOMC officials say it
is necessary to taper QE. Kansas City Fed President, Esther George,
believes today's economy is signaling that it's time to get back to old
ways. Dallas Federal Reserve Bank head, Robert Kaplan, calls for the
start of the withdrawing of monetary stimulus in October. Even such a
"dove" as the boss of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, Mary
Daly, spoke about reducing the scale of asset purchases in late 2021 or
early 2022.

### Weekly [EURUSD][1] trading plan

I very much doubt that the ending of the excessive inflationary
surprises was a game changer. The Fed intends to act faster than the
ECB, the US economy is ahead of the European one, which means
[EURUSD][1] downtrend will continue. Use the rebound from the
resistances at 1.1775, 1.18 and 1.184 to enter short trades.







## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=SPX&returnUrl=true