+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-21"
description = "EURUSD forecast for 21.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "EURUSD forecast for 21.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=20.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 21, 2020

May 21, 2020

Dollar has no rivalsDmitri Demidenko

## People buy the US dollar because other people do the same

Some people may have been encouraged to buy the euro after Germany and
France had offered a €500-billion fund to help countries suffered from
the pandemic. However, the [EUR/USD][1] steady rally requires efforts
from both sides. Investors need to be confident when the right time to
sell the US dollar comes. But could they have now what they have
expected for years? Market players haven’t been discouraged from having
the greenback in their portfolios by the expansion of the Fed’s balance
sheet, the growth of the US public debt, or by the huge US foreign trade
deficit. The dollar is like a global language or social media. People
use it because other people do the same. People learn English for
international communications or visit Facebook for the same purposes.

Although the US GDP is falling dramatically, the share of the greenback
in conversion, payment, and trading operations has not changed much.
Central banks still hold about 60% of their FX reserves in US dollars.
One of the reasons for the dollar popularity is the absence of
alternatives. Neither the euro nor the Chinese yuan nor the Bitcoin can
be real competitors to the US dollar. Therefore, [investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s are focused
on the Fed’s policies as the dollar plays a dominant role in the global
financial system. Much depends on the FOMC decisions and not only in the
USA.

 **Dynamics of the US share in the global GDP**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 21.05.2020][2]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The minutes of the Fed’s April meeting have somehow discouraged the
[EUR/USD][1] aggressive buyers. The central bank seriously considered
the possibility of following the Japanese experience of the yield curve
control. The strategy involves keeping debt rates at a certain level.
Besides, the BoJ does not require as many resources as it was expected
when the QE was launched. This means that the Fed’s balance won’t be
expanded so fast in this case. It is a positive factor for the US
dollar. The Federal Reserve has already cut the [daily](https://www.fintecher.org/2020/03/03/forex-trading-daily-strategy/) pace of bond
purchases to $6 billion, from $75 billion per day at the peak of market
shocks. Besides, the net asset purchases for the G7 central banks were
above $1.3 trillion in April, which should be the record amount of money
injected in the global bond market for a long time.

 **Dynamics of asset purchases by central banks**

![LiteForex: EURUSD forecast for 21.05.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

The [EUR/USD][1] bears have been also encouraged by the growing tension
in the US-China trade relations. The Senate overwhelmingly approved
legislation that suggests the audit of the Chinese companies, whose
shares are traded on the US stock exchanges. Earlier, some Chinese
corporations didn’t allow the US auditors to carry out the
investigation. Now, these companies could be barred from listing on the
US stock exchanges.

Nonetheless, just a few days ago, Donald Trump said that, if the Chinese
companies are delisted from the New York Stock Exchange, they will move
to London, Frankfurt, or Tokyo. This is a reasonable message of the US
president. Unlike his tweet, where Trump claims China will do anything
to stop his re-election as the US President. After that, China could
continue treating the US unfairly. The [EUR/USD][1] bulls stepped back,
but they can go ahead again as long as the pair is above the support at
1.09.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][4]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][5] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>



## Price chart of EURUSD in real time mode

![Dollar has no rivals][6]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/usa-global-gdp-21-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=368780c16b0cebf0d7ed35de076d95cf
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/qe-central-banks-21-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=bc69cf1afaaf5887e2fe3e5abfc0bf92
   4. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-has-no-rivals&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   5. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=dollar-has-no-rivals&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/eurusd/liteforex-blog-eurusd-21-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=5a2b211c78982a067eb5de2b2bd39e90