+++
categories = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
date = "2020-05-21"
description = "GBP/USD forex forecast for 21.05.2020"
tags = ["Cryptocurrency", "Blockchain", "SmartContract"]
title = "GBP/USD forex forecast for 21.05.2020"
type = "post"
+++

{{<iframe id="large-banner" src="https://www.bounty.group/#slide=11.0" width="100%" height="600" scrolling="no" style="border: 0px solid rgb(216, 221, 230); border-radius: 3px;">}}

May 21, 2020

May 21, 2020

Pound is a master of a dead cat bounceDmitri Demidenko

## Open positions on the GBP/USD and the EUR/GBP according to the
changes in global risk appetite

The S&P 500 rally and the euro growth have proved the weakness of the
GBP. The [GBP/USD][1] growth towards 1.23 was immediately used to enter
shorts, looking again as a dead cat bounce. It is a popular Forex price
pattern, which signals that the bulls are weak, they are trying to break
the downtrend but fail. The problems of the sterling are obvious, and
the fact that the situation is getting worse continues to be of concern.

There are three fundamentals factors suggesting selling the [GBP/USD][1]
or buying the[ EUR/GBP][2], depending on the performance of the US
dollar. They are Brexit, negative interest rates, and the weakness of
the UK economy. A few weeks left before the deadline, July 1, when it
will be decided whether the transition period should be extended or not.
I still don’t believe that even the participants of Boris Johnson in the
EU summit will change the situation much. London pretends to not
understand why the EU is not willing to sign a Canad-style trade deal.
However, the answer is simple. The EU doesn’t want to have a strong
rival in a close neighborhood. A lack of progress in the Brexit talks
pushes up the volatility, encouraging to sell off the pound.

Unless the transition period is extended and the trade deal is signed,
the UK will face new tariffs, which will weigh on the economy that is
already weak amid the pandemic. After the UK unemployment had hit its
record high at 2 million, the Chancellor Rishi Sunak predicted the UK
will be clobbered by a severe recession “the likes of which the nation
has never seen before”. The V-shaped recovery is impossible under the
current conditions, the UK officials have to find a way to manage the
debt that will be growing amid the fiscal stimulus.

One of the solutions is the introduction of negative interest rates by
the Bank of England. Just a week ago, Andrew Bailey said the BoE was not
considering cutting interest rates to below zero. However, in late May,
he has changed the tone suggesting that the BoE is studying the
experience of other central banks in this sphere and is weighing its
potential outcomes and side effects. A formal argument for the further
easing of the monetary [policy](https://www.fintechee.com/policy/) is the drop in the inflation rate from
1.5% to 0.8 in April.

 **Dynamics of UK inflation**

![LiteForex: GBP/USD forex forecast for 21.05.2020][3]

 _Source: Bloomberg_

However, the real reason is the possibility of selling negative-yielding
government bonds, which will significantly reduce the cost of servicing
all loans. In fact, the buyers of the securities will pay for lending
money to the government. The first experience was successfully
implemented: the Treasury managed to place 3-year bonds at a rate of
-0.003% for £ 3.8 billion.

 **Dynamics of UK bond yields**

![LiteForex: GBP/USD forex forecast for 21.05.2020][4]

 _Source: Wall Street Journal._

Therefore, the sterling is pressed down by numerous factors. The
political environment is unfavorable in the UK, the economy is weak,
[investor](https://www.fintechee.com/tutorial-for-forex-trading/investor-mode/)s expect the BoE to cut the interest rates to below zero. If the
US dollar is being sold off versus the major currencies amid an increase
in the global risk appetite, it makes sense to consider buying the [
EUR/GBP][2] with the targets at 0.91 and 0.92. If the greenback remains
in current positions, it will be relevant to continue selling the
[GBP/USD][1] with targets at 1.2 and 1.18.

* * *

P.S. Did you like my article? Share it in social networks: it will be
the best “thank you" :)

Ask me questions and comment below. I’ll be glad to answer your
questions and give necessary explanations.

 **Useful links:**

  * I recommend trying to trade with a reliable broker [here][5]. The system allows you to trade by yourself or copy successful traders from all across the globe.
  * Use my promo-code BLOG for getting deposit bonus 50% on LiteForex platform. Just enter this code in the appropriate field while [depositing][6] your trading account.
  * Telegram channel with high-quality analytics, Forex reviews, training articles, and other useful things for traders <t.me/liteforex>





## Price chart of GBPUSD in real time mode

![Pound is a master of a dead cat bounce][7]

The content of this article reflects the author’s opinion and does not
necessarily reflect the official position of LiteForex. The material
published on this page is provided for informational purposes only and
should not be considered as the provision of investment advice for the
purposes of Directive 2004/39/EC.

Rate this article:

{{value}}

( {{count}} {{title}} )

   1. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=GBPUSD&returnUrl=true
   2. my.liteforex.com/trading/chart?symbol=EURGBP&returnUrl=true
   3. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/cpi-uk-21-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=4ac8aa2df9749ebe1cb83527462d91dd
   4. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/bonds-uk-21-05-20.jpg?w=30&s=dc0c0c60b00d6fc19bf6765fcfd11783
   5. my.liteforex.com/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-is-a-master-of-a-dead-cat-bounce&openPopup=%2Fregistration%2Fpopup&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   6. my.liteforex.com/deposit/?category=analysts-opinions&slug=pound-is-a-master-of-a-dead-cat-bounce&promo_code=BLOG&utm_source=blog&utm_medium=article&utm_campaign=bonus
   7. cdn.liteforex.com/cache/uploads/blog_post/fundamental_analysis/liteforex-blog-gbpusd-21-05-20.jpg?q=75&w=1000&s=5203b1c6e02761859d183cf14c3b75b3